I have been on Depo for 7 or 8 years now and I love it! Never had a pregnancy scare, only side effects were weight gain (which I was able to lose- all of it) and headaches which I usually get anyways. This form of birth control is one injection every 3 months so I get it and forget it! No daily pills, no chance of an IUD embedding into my stomach, none of that nonsense. Haven't had a period since starting the injections, maybe light spotting right before its time for another injection. It really depends on the individual. I was informed of all of the side effects, including the more serious ones. It takes time for the drug to take effect in your system, so don't give it up after one injection. If after four it still isn't working for you, then I would call it quits. But this form of birth control has been a lifesaver.
After 6 years of taking this injection, my wife cannot conceive for the last 13 years. This was after first child and took this injection. This is disappointing and embarrassment to male partners and also the family to grow and keep the lineage as anything could happen to that single one which leads to the end of the genealogy of the family name especially to societies that has traditions and culture for big families and inheritance importance.
Have endrometrisos was bleeding from vagina anus and ureatha heavy clots pain constantly for months ended up with anemia started the injection bleeding has stopped still have odd pelvic pain I'm 42 partner had vascetomy so using only for endrometrisos symptoms and this is first shot and it's been great so far I also have fibroids , was put on provera tablets 20mg few tablets a day for one week prior to starting needle
I had a miscarriage due to the depo shot. Please ladies let you bodies work naturally. These type of medications aren't meant to help us only to ruin what we have.
I have been on this for 4/5 years i would recommend only if u really don't want children right now and u gmdont mind the headaches the itching the feeling like you have to throw up or faint.
Ive been on it for 2 months now , I get Horrible headaches , always nauseous , my hair has been falling out a lot lately, im always sleepy , i have horrible mood swings , ive been spotting for a few days now this is my first time on birth control and so far im not really liking this method of birth control
I got my brith control shot last year of may 2018 beacuse due to bad crumps and not getting pregnant when I first got it I felt fine 2nd same 3rd same 4th of this year 2019 not the same. On feb 20 ish I didn't felt like my self even my husband knew I wasn't been me. I was getting some much anxiety and crying all the time I didn't know why seen I live with my husband at cali and I'm from AZ my husband did his best to help me to get better. Everyday I was crying to my mom tell her I want this pain to go away I didn't know why I feeling this way I was super sacred about what going on and some odd reason I want to hurt myself I was telling my self like wait what... no that was scary part. I came back to stay with my mom n dad for while till I fingered out what going on then I got my answer it's the brith control that makein feel like this. I feel ok right now but not fully myself I wanted to thank my husband n family getting better if your in the brith control shot please please get away for it right away!!!
I had my first shot on November 26,2018.started bleeding on December 23,2018 non stop..I'm still bleeding with terrible stomach pains and clots...it hasn't stopped yet..I was due for my second shot in February did not go..due to the bleeding..it's very depressing having to wear pads all day.. haven't had sex with my husband since December due to the heavy bleeding..this shot is really the devil...I don't recommend this shot...what's the point of being on birth control.. when u can't even have sex due to the non-stop bleeding....and horrible stomach pains oh and it's March 1,2019 still having heavy bleeding!!!
I started Depo when I was 13 years old. Im now 19 and just stopped the shots in September 2018. I was diagnosed with depression prior to starting the shot. Im also lactose intolerant and was prescribed calcium supplements. And my family has lots of history of breadt cancer and osteoporosis. During the shots i had no weight gain however, i actually lost about 20 pounds a year after. I lost my boobs too unfortunately lol. I was lazy and had no desire to do anything most of the time. i was also extremely moody and had bad ups and downs. Since getting off the shots my boobs hurt all the time, i'm constantly hungry, and have horrible fatigue. I get annoyed easily. My period is all over the place. I bleed probably once a week right now and its honestly horrible. It makes me worried that i'll never be normal again. I wouldnt ever recommend this form of birth control to someone for an irregular period, especially as young as i was. If i had known about all the side effects i would have never got on the shot.
Have been on depo for 5 years first 4 were great no periods, not issues I put on a could pounds but nothing crazy, then this last year gained 20 lbs in just 4 months so I'm switching to a different birth control... I use to be s 3 and now I'm a 7 in jeans.... and I believe it's the cause of my over emotions I use to not be so overly emotional until I got on depo
I started depo when I was 17, I weighed about 130ish, I'm now 20 and switched to the patch. I definitely did gain weight, I currently weigh 172 pounds. When I started depo my period completely disappeared. The only time I'd bleed was when I was due for my next shot. I did stop using the shot for about a month due to my insurance and I missed my due date and I did bleed for an entire month... I feel like I did get very moody, depressed and also loss of my sex drive while on this birth control. But the times I did have sex it definitely did prevent any pregnancies. The only thing I liked about the shot was not getting my period, the effectiveness and I receive the shot every 3 months. I don't have to worry about taking a pill everyday. Only reason I switched to the patch was because you can only be on the depo shot for no more than 2 years sinde the shot can put you at risk for bone thinning.
To much side effects don't buy
I was on depo from Sept 2009- Jan 2017. I didnt experience weight gain, depression, joint pain or mood swings. The only thing I experienced was the bleeding for the first 3 months and bad migraines. Other than that, I was fine. It all depends on your body I guess
I got on depo around mid or late 2015 when I was 18 or 19. I experience light bleeding non stop everyday, I just always wore a panty liner and eventually got used to it. I also noticed weight gain, but I chalked that up to overeating a lot of junk food. My weight was always up and down while I was on the shot. I became sexually active when I was 21. My boyfriend didn't wear a condom. At this point I was on the shot for 2 years or so. I never got pregnant. So this does help prevent pregnancy. I got off of it in june or july 2017 because my insurance was cut off. I read that it takes a long time for the shot to be completely out of your system when you go off it so I continued having unprotected sex and never got pregnant. The only side effect I had when I stopped taking depo was my breast became very sore and tender, but that went away after about a week or two. I've been off of depo for a little over a year now and still haven't had any pregnancies. I'm thinking about getting back on it.
I started using depo as a birth control method and have regreted it ever since. Hands down, worst decision of my life. After the first shot i bled for 3 months straight non stop. I was on it for a year. During that year i gained 40 lbs. I went from being a very skinny 95 lbs to 135 lbs. Which was boarderline overweight for my height. When i was told weight was a side effect, dr said 15 lbs max. I thought well that wouldnt hurt me at all. Wrong. 40 lbs. I didnt change my eating or activity levels and still gained that much. I also had mood swings and headaches, but the weight gained caused horrible depression. I didnt recognize myself. I saw a stranger every time i looked in the mirror. I went from being a confident 27 year old to an overweight short chick with a muffin top. People kept asking me if i was pregnant. It has been 3 years since my last shot and with strict diet and exercise i have been able to lose 15 of the 40 lbs. I think depo ruined my body way worse than my first pregnancy ever did. (I got the shot years after my pregnancy) This birth control worked great cause no one wanted to have sex with me.
Please DO NOT take this!!!!! I have been on this for over 4 years. I was only warned about the basic side effects like weight gain, acne etc never about Secondary Adrenal Insufficiency!!! I almost died because of low cortisol and low blood sugar. Doctors could not figure out what was wrong with me as my health was declining. To the point where i couldn't not get out of bed for two weeks. I was put on steroid for my almost none existing cortisol levels, while still taking the shot the entire time. I was sent to a specialist who just now made this connection and told me that this shot is the cause of it because it acts like a corticosteroids and suppressed adrenal, pituitary and hypothamic function!! Do one ever warned me or told me that I should not be taking this past a certain time. Doctors have continued to prescribe this to me for 4 years without any monitoring or even asking questions. PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM THIS SHOT. It is a slow killer and POISON
I took this when I had trouble taking the pill. I was warned weight gain was a side effect. When I was 17/18 years old I talked to my doctor about other methods of birth control because I often forgot taking a pill on a daily basis. She mentioned the shot every 3 months and told me about the side effects, one being weight gain. Most women she said gain 5-15 pounds as a result, some none and in some cases, extreme weight gain, but it was rare (one in a hundred I believe she said). I BALLOONED over 40 pounds in 3 months! My family thought I was sick! I was so embarrassed. Eating habits never changed and I was mortified. Once I hit the 3-4 month mark the weight slowed down but it kept coming. As a result, I went from an average size, to a since 18+ in no time! I've tried diets, exercise etc, and I've been unable to lose the weight. I also have another health issue on top of it, so I need to lose the weight and don't want to do the surgery to lose it. Worst decision of my life! It ruined my body, mind, relationships and health over all.
All these comments are true. It does depend on your body, but it certainly should not be offered as an option for birth control. For my experience, I've only taken one shot on the 18th of December 2018. The first and second months was horrible. I had frightening mood swings. Almost every week, I had a mental break down. I felt so fatigued. I had this constant brownish discharge. My sex drive has decrease dramatically. I was always angry, I'm still angry. Angry that I wasnt given a deeper description on the effects of this contraception. I'm angry that my health provider didn't inform me on these reviews that other women had experienced. It's so upsetting and scary. If you're considering on using this type of birth contraception; I would not recommend it. It's not worth it.
Boy do I have a story for you all. Kia Ora. I first took the depo as a contraception. Being safe and all. Started when I was 18. Ever since I remember I've had really bad problems with my periods, cramps that would curl me up in a ball, bleeding so much I couldn't stand, so much pain I was visiting the doctor every week, $$$. I kept on top of the pain with meds as the doctor's would prescribe, but from the age of 14 up to the age of 20. It didn't feel right taking pills everyday. I did not have a monthly, I had an everyday bleed, and not just a spotting bleed it was heavy. I decided to go back to the doctor's and say, hey it don't feel right! I'm masking the pain not actually figuring it out, to be diagnosed. They sent me to the gyno when I was at the age of 22. Had my first key hole surgery to have a look what was going on around my uterus. Woke up. They tell me I've got a bicornuated uterus, which is where it's a heart shaped but one side is much small than the other. On top of that I had endometriosis. Which they apparently got rid of, and can grow back at any time. Depo is the only thing that can slow the growing process down. Depo has not cured this, has not slowed the bleed
I am dying a terrible death. I've been on this shot since junior year of high school because I wasn't able to take pills; I'm currently a sophomore in college and for the first time I'm getting serious side effects. It started with a panic attack in October due to the missing hormones, I took my next shot in January and that's when it all went down hill. I'm nauseous when eating, dizzy when standing up to the point i feel like I'll faint, heart palpitations galore which causes me to have a shortness of breath, I can't even see some times because of my vision being blurry 20x out of my day. Apparently you're not supposed to take it more than 2 years and it's been 3 1/2 for me. I'm 19 years old and I feel like I'm going to be messed up for life. I will not be taking it again in April, stay far away from this please.
Depo Provera was the all time worst thing I could have ever chosen. I got the shot for migraines, and to avoid getting pregnant. When I first got the shot I got my period a month after and I didn't quit bleeding for 9 months straight. I had lost so much blood to the point my weight was dropping tremendously. I went from 150/145 to 110! I looked like a walking skeleton and I just felt awful the entire time (suicidal thoughts, migraines, very ill) It just wasn't the one for me. It took 3 months for me to actually feel some what normal again. I do not suggest this AT ALL!
I took this shot 6 weeks after giving birth, my first shot was in August 2018 I bled for the first 2 weeks and haven't bled since. I'm a few days away from getting my third shot and unsure if I want to. I've experienced horrible bone/muscle pain and my teeth feel like they are deteriorating already. No mood swings or weight gain. Overall positive experience but the body pain in worrying me.
DO NOT TAKE DEPO. Every side effect that you have ever read about is true . Cramping , joint pain , brown discharge for weeks . Just terrible. MY DEPRESSION & anxiety has increased from a 1to 50 . I cry for no reason I have 3 or more panic attacks a day . I'll go off on any & everyone for no reason . Uncontrollable side effects . Nothing I take works . Not even for the migraine I've had for three weeks. I have tried Mirena & loved it .( besides the pain going in & coming out ) the side effects don't compare not one bit to depo.
I did three rounds of Depo starting back in June 2007. I stopped March 2008. Those were the worst nine months of my life! I bled for 9 months straight. Every single day. I became severely depressed and lost 20 pounds because of the depression. This put me at a very unhealthy weight for my height. My sex drive disappeared completely. I'm shocked my boyfriend didn't dump me because of that and the crazy mood swings I would have. Crying hysterically one minute and then screaming and so angry the next. It was really scary. I felt trapped inside my own body. I could not control my emotions or anxiety. My hair started falling out and stopped growing altogether in some places. Even after I stopped getting the shot it took several months for me to feel normal again. Depo was the worst thing I ever did to my body. It shouldn't even be offered as a method of birth control.
Worked well for me. I didnt have a period except for light spotting every 3 months right before it was time to get the shot again. I had no cramping- virtually no side effects. Also I didn't get pregnant. :) I was on depot for over 5 years, which isn't recommended due to possible bone density loss- that's the only reason I switched. I'm now using skyla IUD which hurt like hell after it was in (because I haven't had any kids). I also have a monthly period now with cramping, breast tinderness, pms-ing- the whole 9 yards! Haha I had none of that on depo. I will add that I do currently have some symptoms like that of carpal tunnel in my wrists. It could be due to the bone density loss, but my mom has carpal tunnel, so I'm not ruling out heredity on that. Also with depo I didn't really gain any weight. I was 17 and weighed about 110- at 24 I was about 125. You can't really blame the 15 pounds in 7 years on depo.
I Took The Depo Shot July Of 2018! I Did Not Have Period Or Anything Until Around 2 Months Into The Shot Is When I Started Spotting. I Did Not Think Anything Of It. Months Came & I Was Still Bleeding!!!!! The 3 Months Were Over & I Was Bleeding As If I Had A Regular Period I Tried Everything To Stop The Bleeding Nothing Would Work. It Is Now January 28 Of 2019 & I Finally Stopped Bleeding A Week Ago! I Will NEVER Take This Drug Ever Again I Definitely DO NOT RECOMMEND IT! Oh & Cant Forget The Mood Swings Horrible
This was the worst decision of my life. I only took one shot (3months worth) and as soon as it ran out my symptoms went from mild to insane. I gained 30 pounds on the depo and my sex drive went away completely. My anxiety went from something i could handle to me having panic attacks in my sleep.
So I have a year taking this shot and yes I did gain a little weight but having a balanced diet and excersising helps maintain your shape. Also take Vitamins for your bones!! Because I didn't and now I am because my back cracks soo easily now and that's not normal and my fingers crack very often. Yikes ok so take vitamin C or D. My most concern is it brought my mood down. I felt down/ depressed and I felt ugly and fat. I have a bf and I felt sooooo insecure and I worthy and I'm never like that. This for real has change me and I'm planning on going off it.
I started Depo when I was 26, Stopped when I was 29.5 to have our 3rd child, took nearly 18months before we became pregnant. I again started taking depo and have been on it for nearly 20 years straight. My Dr says that my Nov shot was my last one as I am 51 and need to allow my body to go into menopause when its ready. (swears I won't get pregnant) I had no periods, no spotting, no mood swings and my weight gain is my own fault as much as I'd like someone or something to blame. I am a little nervous about no longer getting the shot, especially after all I have read, but I have no regrets. It was a simple way to alleviate (eliminate) my painful pms & cycles and assure birth control.
I got the depo shot feb 2018 it lasts 3 months so it ended in May 2018 ever since I first got this shot i felt good the first 2 weeks but after 3weeks i couldn't even get up from bed, it would be constant dizziness and horrible migraines. I now have to wear glasses and it's stopped me from working and going to school because everywhere I go and I mean EVERYWHERE i get blurry vision, i have been to so many doctors for my eyes, brain, heart I've gotten blood work done and ALLL normal. my life was great up until I got that shot and I regret it so much. it is now 2019 about to be a year and I am still feeling the same this shot ruined my life and it should be illegal.
Ive just started depo and so far the effects has been very uncomfortable. I dont bleed or anything but im always hungry! ill start getting moody or sad out of the blue for no reason, its makes me super tired, and it makes me feel weakened and nauseated. maybe it takes time for my body to get use to it. After my third shot if it continues to make me feel this way, i mist find another bc.
ALL DEPO PROVERA STORIES AREN'T BAD. I started taking Depo-provera for birth control in Aug 2018, I got my first shot while I was on day 4 of my period. I was skeptical at first woth taking this medication after seeing all these negative reviews online. But I gave it a shot anyways and here I am now in January 2019 and I just received my 3rd Depo needle. I thought I'd wait until my 3rd shot to post a review, just to give the full truth. I've experienced ZERO side affects. Yes! Thats right ZERO SIDE AFFECTS! I do get the odd spotting for a day or two. But nothing I'd need a pad, tampon or panty liner for. No weight gain, no depression, no nothing. Just a shot I get every 3 months to keep me from getting pregnant. So before you judge getting this shot on someone elses experience, talk to your doctor. The professional here, don't listen to all the bad reviews. If it was honestly that bad it wouldn't be on the market! Make your own decisions, try it for yourself & if it works for you stick with it. Just over here trying to throw some shade on all these bad reviews. Let's here some more positive ones!
I bleed for a whole YEAR when I started the depo!! That's right, a year! Non stop!! I'm depressed and the mood swings are ridiculous! I been in the shot for over 3 years now. Just had my most recent shot yesterday and I been in pain (cramps) since. I'm always tired and never want to do anything fun because of depression and tiredness. That was my last shot and I will no longer be in it. Also, my teeth have been cracking due to the calcium it takes from your body. I had perfect teeth before I started taking the shot. I lost 2 teeth and need another removed. Do not take the shot.
I started taking it December 5, 2017.. so I was 17... I only started because when my periods would arrive I would throw up every month, a few times and I didn't like that. Throughout taking the depo, I spotted but that's it. I had bad migraines. I couldn't even get out of bed for school. I would sometimes have to leave school early feeling nausea. I thought it was just normal until someone said it's the depo. My shot has ended today luckily !!! But I'm currently laying in bed with a migraine & stomach pains. Feeling nausea. Again. I will never go back on the depo. It was my first and last time going on birth control. I guess I will just have to throw up every month .
Absolutely the worst thing I have ever done! It's stopped my bleeding with spotting over months. However the side effects of this thing are beyond evil! Over the months in taking this shot, my symptoms have got worse to the point it was all pointing to fibromyalgia. My hair has thinned. I've had tingling hot flashes down one side of my face (the side the shot was injected into) my anxiety has increased to the extreme, constant worries and paranoid. Stomach cramps most recently. Blurred vision. Headaches. Severe. I've not been to the gym since taking this shot, constantly aching, joint pain, muscle pain,I could go on and on and on. It's got worse this month, and I will not be taking it from when it runs out! Unfortunately I'm still stuck with this inside me until March 2019, please please please take my, and others advise on this page. Do not take this shot. I'm terrified of the coming off it symptoms but I need it out of me. I want my life back!!!
I started Depo when I was about 14-15 and I kind of second guess it. It makes me tired and cranky. My vaginal are feels as if someone or something is rubbing glass and sandpaper on the walls. I am now 16 and I kinda have problems with it still. I spot sometimes and I'll get a heavy flow period out of no where!! I use this because I have ovarian Cysts. I still have cysts even with this.
DO NOT!! This may seem so convenient but it isn't. I got two shots in the span of 6 months and I bled every. single. day. After my second shot, the MD reassured me the bleeding should normalize, but it actually got heavier. I had the worst migraines in my life, weight gain, and zero sex drive. What's the point of having birth control if you can't even have enjoy sex?
awful awful awful. It has 110% amplified my anxiety and even given me moments of extreme depression. Not only that but has completely numb my emotions, I don't laugh or feel happy like I use to and my relationship with my boyfriend has been slightly strained because I am just so unlike my usual self. My sex drive is also completely non existent, in fact I'm even turned off by sex when before it was totally not the case. I also have experienced light to heavy bleeding with small cramps and headaches on and off whenever. I can't go out or work without a tampon or pads, it's such a pain. There's been many times I've thought I was safe and started heavily bleeding right in the middle of work. This drug has changed me in just the three months of taking it and it's absolutelu horribly. I'm never taking the depo shot again. Ever. It shouldn't be legal, and that sounds dramatic to say but I am dead serious. I feel like a walking anxious zombie.
I started depo when I was 14, I am now 24. At first it was a really bad type of birth control for me, I bleed months on end. I spoke to my doctor and she had told me that this would be normal as it regulates in my body. I took it for 3 years and then realized it was depleting the calcium in my body (started in my teeth). I now take the shot for 3 years and then go onto a pill for a year and then switch back. at 19 i had a stroke and don't have many affordable options for birth control. I also get migraines a with auras and depo made it a lot worse but I got piercings to control this naturally. I like depo and i do understand why people have issues with the drug. When recommending, I say try it. it's 3 months. I wouldn't be as happy as i am now without it
Never get this shot!!! It's literally changed me into a different person! It's nearly made me split up with my boyfriend because it's turned me crazy I have no self confidence I've put on weight I'm sad all the time it really is evil!
If I could rate this negative stars, I would!! I only took one shot in July 2018 and now in Dec 2018 have gained 20 lbs and became extremely anxietal-- borderline suicidal. My whole body seized up, making it almost unbearable to move- to even do the simpliest things like wash dishes or fold laundry. I use to be rather active and exercised a lot and now even the simpliest of activity makes me feel like I went through a hard core work out in my arms and I feel tired all the time. I have never had that feeling before and always maintained a steady weight around 145 lbs. I am miserable and hate what this drug has done to me. This was never disclosed as a side effect and I wish they would take this devil drug off the market!
Depo Provera has been very horrible for me and everyone in my life has experienced a different side of how horrible this drug has been to me. I was about 16 when I got my first Depo Provera shot and I experienced decreased in sexual drive and got very sad enough. The second shot was the same as the first, the third was not as bad but this forth and last shot has completely destroyed emotionally. I have never had severe depression or anxiety and I have been off Depo Provera for 2 months now and still experience those side effects. My boyfriend has been nothing but supportive and I completely snap at him for no reason at all. This shot has just drained the life out of me and it's been the downfall of my mental health. Ladies, if you are considering this kind of birth control please do your research for it first!! I wish everyone good luck
I had the shot at the end of September. I started bleeding with in 2 weeks of getting it and it has been getting sever. I have lower back and pelvic pain along with very heavy bleeding and very large clots. Im bleeding so much im weak . the worse drug ever not to mention the mood swings
I got off of the depo shot in may of this year. I have been on and off of it for about 8 or so years now. I finally made the decision this summer to get off of it completely. I have found myself having depression, anxiety, my mood swings are outrageous, I cry at things i never cried about before. I feel lost. I've even been rude to my boyfriend who has done nothing but be supportive of me. I have never been this type of person. I have gained an abnormal amount of weight since being on this shot. I constantly find myself feeling down about myself. Please don't take this shot!!
Ladies I have bad cramps with light periods so instead of the doctors figuring out what's wrong they all suggested birth control. I'm not that sexually active and doubt if I'd get pregnant as I have 23 and 24 years old children and haven't been pregnant since. I went off my regular 3 day cycle on December 3 gave myself the shot on the 5th and I've been bleeding for about four days now. I don't know how long this will last but I don't like that and I'm not getting another shot especially after reading these reviews. I had it years ago and I forgot why I stop taking it but shouldn't have. I did it for the cramps and I wanted the weight gain because I'm depressed about being skinny.
I started taking Depo-Provera when I was 20. I am now 32. D-P was easy to take, 1 injection every 3months at your GP, so no forgetting to take a pill each day. I still got my period but not as heavy tho and only lasted 3-4 days sometimes only spotting. I remained the same weight. When I decided that I was resposible enough i stopped taking D-P at 27. I decided to start a family with my husband and fell pregnant first attempt at 29yrs old. I have 2 children. Just gave birth 6wks ago. I will be back on D-P my nxt doctors visit as I am happy with two children.
This type of birth control!! I gained so much weight not to mention hardness in my stomach and all lots of nausea!! I also lost alot of hair and experience alot of pain!! After i started taking this shot my attitude was worst, I woke up pissed off and angry I hate the experience!! If I have to go throught all this just to not get pregnant I rather something better!!
I was one of the first to go on the depo injection, it was a God send to me, as I had 2 week heavy periods with one week off before they would start again. After i had my 3rd child my doctor offered it to me, I of course said yes. I was on it for 24 years, I did not gain any significant wieight until I was in my mid 40s, yet that could have been due to other life events. My quesion is if they have done any studies on has anyone long term patients of th depo, had any abnormal side effects, let say a types of brain tumors, when none are in family histories?
I absolutely hate this birth control. First I gained weight, and a lot of it (in 3 months I had gained over 20 pounds). Next came the mood swings and anxiety. I already have been diagnosed with severe anxiety and am medicated for it. My anxiety and panic attacks went crazy. I still had a menstrual cycle. The point of taking it was to stop my cycle to help endometriosis. No sex drive. Had strange thoughts about death. Irritability was also a problem. I will never take this awful birth control again
i only had 2 injections and i wish i never would of had any. the first month seemed fine. But soon after i had my second shot, i knew it wasn't for me. i was constantly depressed, i would go into fits of rage for no reason. i didn't want to leave the house or talk to anyone. i was supposed to get my 3rd shot in august and i declined it. a couple weeks after the depression lifted. but the effects of coming off it have been much worse for me. my blood pressure is high and it never used to be, and i have horrible anxiety that i can't control. i feel miserable.
Please do not take this gave me a period for 1 year straight and severe weight gain! The company who invented this should go to prison such criminals!!!!
I have been on depo for about 2 years due to presumed endometriosis. I was bleeding for 15-30 days straight with horrible cramps and fatigue, and I tried various bc pills that were not effective and gave me much worse side effects. I have experienced some hair thinning and mood changes, but I no longer have periods or spotting anymore. The pain is also much less frequent and more bearable than before. It's a strong hormone that definitely has its drawbacks, but in my case I can't complain.
I was fine for the first month while that passed I started to feel different, more not myself pain on my stomach I started bleeding and i am going almost TWO MONTHS STRAIGHT! I get the worst cramps ever that I just wanna go to the hospital! I had heard more horrifying stories about parvo, but I wanted to try for myself but YES It has protected me from getting pregnant but I feel more sad/ lonely, depressed, I don't feel like getting in the mood with my husband it all changed for me and it was my first time using parvo, I feel like my insides have swelled up,I just hurts how bad the cramps are. I wanna keep using birth control but I am nervous about using a different method.
I find it interesting reading such bad reviews on this medication. I have been on the Depo Provera shot for two years now, and I love it. Before the depo shot I was on the Nuva ring and it made me crazy. Suicidal, I was cutting myself as well as being always irritated and depressed. The shot stopped all of that. It does have some side effects like weight gain and I'm always tired, but I manage that by taking vitamins and watching what I eat. I originally started on birth control for my endometriosis but became sexually active so I switched to the depo shot. It doesn't help my endometriosis pain, which is the only reason I didn't give a five star review, but it does work as birth control as I don't even bleed at all. I tried the pill and bled every day and was happy to have relief from that on the shot. I would recommend it to people if they want it for birth control and estrogen isn't working for them. I think different medications work for different people, so it makes sense for bad reviews. Overall I have had a relatively good experience with it.
100% would no recommend. I have had my period for the last month straight. I got put on it because my contraceptive pill caused me to get my period every two weeks. However, good god the depo made it ten times worse. It has genuinely ruined my life. I constantly fight with everyone and literally feel no emotion. I've been told i have no personality anymore. I nearly broke up with my boyfriend over it. Genuinely feel a constant cloud over my hed and cannot stop crying. I have gained a good bit of weight and extremely depressed and demotivated in my everyday life. The doctor has advised me to go back on my pill, as well as the depo, which should have stopped the bleeding. However, it is actually worse now. I have had to take 2 weeks off work, attend a councellor and go to a gynaecologist over it. Please please please, if you are considering it, please do your research!
Im so surprised to read all these 1 star reviews, I had to choose birth control because my reason was not mentioned "heavy bleeding" I've always had horrible perioda where I just lay in bed for a week. My tubes are tied, so I got this to stop my horrible periods. Once I got the shot they stopped and I got my life back... I hadn't worked in years but was able to start working again! I did gain weight, but I'll take that over laying in bed and having to take 3 showers a day. I love depo ?
So I started having this shot 3/4 years ago, it was only the last 2 years I was experiencing severe breast pain in both breasts. Mood swings, serious decrease in sexual orientation, I also could not find any emotion, like I was I used to be an emotional wreck and since taking the depo shot I hadn't cried for a while. I must have put on about 2/3 stone in weight. I've been off the shot for about 5 months now.. could take up to a year until I get my period back. My emotions are all over the place. I have also read on the internet that they give this depo shot to rapists and pedophiles in the US to stop them thinking about sex. So that worked for me... which is sad. DONT TAKE THIS ITS NOT GREAT!!!
I was on the Depo for about 5 years. For 5 years I've felt depressed and super emotional. My hair thinned out like crazy and became lifeless. My acne got worse and i was just always so easily irritated and angry for no reason. The only reason I stayed on it was because it was the only other method I was comfortable in taking which is horrible.
Thanks to depo for healing my ovarian cysts i was told i must remove it because of the pain in my body due to my prevention it all started when i went off depo for a year my body change havin lot of pain in my ovary then went see a doctor he told me about ovarian cysts but i google to find out that birth control help and went back to the clinic for.a shot of depo until today no pain nothing.
It's been a week and a half since I got the depo shot and I wish I had seen these reviews before getting it. I got the shot during my period, got off my period and then just woke up to spotting this morning. I've never had spotting. And to find out it could last a year? No thanks. I'm switching back to my old method as soon as I get the chance. Oh and my ance on my back is getting worse and my hair is thinning, SO THATS FUN. Wish my primary care physician warned me about all this possible bull.
This is the worst thing i have ever expierenced. I was on a high dose of the pill and it was giving me bad symptoms. My doctor had convinced me to do the shot and everything is just so much worst!! Headaches, body aches, my anxiety is so awful i can't stop crying. i feel super depressed. blurry vision. my hormones are so out of wack i could go on. i would NEVER EVER let someone get this. this shouldn't even be legal
I took this as suggested by the Dr to help my pmdd and they suggested it would suppress the extreme anxiety I was experiencing with my periods. It did not. It made me experience severe depression and I bleed for 6 months. I have heard good things from others but for me it was a disaster and you can't stop it half way though you have to ride it out.
I wish I had researched instead of blindly listening to my doctors recommendation. Traditional bc pills made me nauseated to the point of vomiting, so I went into my doctor and requested the nuva ring. She recommended the depo since it lasted for 3 months. My husband and I have 2 small children and are not planning on expanding the family any time soon. I took the shot on November 1st and now 2 weeks later I'm experiencing extreme fatigue, blurred vision and muscle stiffness. It's horrible and won't be out of my system for 2.5 months :(. Stay away from this drug. It's too much in your body at one time, and in my opinion should be banned.
My first time on depo made me break out with horrible rash made my feet and hands so swollen. I been bleeding for 4 weeks now non stop pain I haven't been able eat right and my body feels so weak . I got this shot on Oct 15 now I have wait until Jan I well never get depo again fact doctors didn't even tell me about effect make me mad
DO NOT TAKE THIS ROUTE OF CONTRACEPTIVES!!! It took my almost 3 years to get my life back after only 2 doses of drop-provera. I immediately began to feel flu like symptoms and became extremely depressed. The mood swings were horrible! I had migraines and joint pain constantly. I lost track of myself and my job, I lost my libido as well. I did loose a lot of weight and it took about 1.5 yrs to get my cycle to regulate. I'm still battling the anxiety that increased after taking this drug. Who ever is dealing with this- it does get better. It takes time but slowly you'll start feeling yourself again.
I took the depo for 2 years and have now been off of it for 1 year and 3 months. I quit the depo because I gained over 25 pounds, it changed my personality and made me extremely crazy! I was so very depressed and suicidal which is not me at all. I had 1 period after quitting depo and then they have disappeared. I have spent so much money on pregnancy tests and they all turn out negative. I have period cramps all the time since stopping but no period. I am occasionally nauseous. I have spent so much money on going to my gyno because I am extremely worried about my body and every time I told that it's normal and not to worry. I just want my body back to normal already!
I've been on depo for just about a year now and am miserable. Every 3 months I went for the shot I gained another 5-8 pounds, I am breaking out more now than I ever have. My boobs went from a B to a D this past year as well. My sex drive has decreased majorly. This past month alone I have had my period twice lasting about 10 days each time. I notice I cry way more than i ever have in my life. I am depressed, and have anxiety which I have never had in my life. I do not recommend this to anyone else. I am not sure if this has anything to do with the Depo shot but ever since I have been on this all I do is bruise, if I sleep with my hands between my legs where my fingers are I have bruising on my legs when I wake up. I cannot wait wait until this is out of my system!
Horrible side effects. I was told it would make my body think it was pregnant. And I thought that was a good thing because I loved being pregnant! Wrong wrong wrong!!! I had a period almost the entire three months on the shot. I got the shot July 11th and got a migraine headache on August 20th that last for 6 hours. I haven't had a headache in 7 years. They have continued every single day all day long since then. I am now on migraine meds that make me feel like a zombie and only help somewhat. I have yet to see a nerologist on the 21st. I'm almost positive that I have a psuedo tumor based on the fact that my vision goes in and out, and at times I can't talk or spell. I will be joining a a lawsuit against this horrible drug. I was due for another injection on October 6th. I did not get it and will never again. I have lost my job and my children have lost their soul provider because of this horrible drug. I'm a single mother!!! This is absolutely not worth it! I would rather have the edometriosis pain!!!
I asked the doctor if this would stop my ovulation because I didn't want to stop ovulating, she said no, so i thought the hormones must not be that bad if it doesn't stop me from ovulating. I found out after my doctor visit and after I got the depo that that's how it works. It stops your ovulation. I started crying immediately after getting it, it was probably traumatic to my brain to have such a high amount of hormones injected into its body. I fell into depression and would cry all day everyday. I wouldn't go to work and my boobs got smaller and felt different. I had no sex drive (which defeats the whole purpose of getting it doesn't it). My boobs are finally back to pre-depo days after about 6 months (I got it in may and it's November). This birth control doesn't make any sense and they shouldn't give it to people without properly warning them (I didn't even know about the black box warning about bone density loss). Don't take this and if you have, don't worry everything will go back to normal eventually. Try to do aerobic exercises and eat really healthy if you want it out of your system faster.
Never again. Bleed for 3 month straight so I stopped and went into premenopausal state. Heavy bleeding, uterus fluttering. Like I was pregnant again. Never Again!
I went into having this form of birth control with the joy of knowing my periods may stop as they have always been very bad for me. I wasn't told half the things I know now about this injection, I was simply injected and sent on my way. After my first shot my moods started to become uncontrollable, I felt so low like a massive rain cloud was permanently over my head, I would sweat profusely, and yes it stopped my periods however I still got every symptom of being on my period that I may aswell have been. I decided to have my second shot, and with regret the same thing again, I have struggled the last three months with depression and mood swings, and I cannot wait for this to go out my system. I will not be having the next shot, and I would not recommend this to anybody! The nhs need to give people more knowledge on what this drug can do during and after stopping. I was unaware of it all, I only know now due to my symptoms and trawling the net to find other women in the same boat.
I will never take birth control ever again: my doctor did not warn me at all about potential side effects and if I had known, I would have never gotten the shot. I have never struggled with anxiety/depression and immediately, I was having enormous panic attacks, major depression, suicidal thoughts, hot flashes, feeling exhausted, lost interest in all the things I love, felt worthless, etc. Seriously, if you are considering this, do NOT do it because you are stuck with it for three months. At least with other birth control, you could stop, but I have felt like I being tortured for three months. Terrible, worst time in my life.
I had read so many horror stories about depo before deciding to try it for myself. I love it! It's been a year and I've had no bleeding whatsoever, my endometrial pain has become so manageable (where as it used to leave me crippled for days at a time), and it's so much easier than remembering to take my pill every day. I have started to get breakouts that I wouldn't have gotten before using depo, and it's a pain to have to go all the way to my gyno to get an injection every three months, but it's so worth it for all of the other benefits. I've had bad reactions to most medications I've taken in the past and reading about the heavy and long-term bleeding from so many people that had taken this one scared me, but I now wish I had started it sooner.
I was about 17 when I went on Depo and it was the worst decision. Depo is just three months of hormones going in at once so you can imagine how moody, depressed, and upset I was. I also got cystic acne from this. Acne was hardly ever a problem for me, but Depo gave me the deep, painful cystic acne. I had to go on accutane and I became even more moody and upset. It was a really hard time for me and I tried denying that it was birth control that gave me all the acne, but now that I look back on it, it was absolutely the reason I suffered. It also made it painful to have sex after going off, and I had inconsistent periods for a long time. Do not recommend for birth control ESPECIALLY for girls in high school/college. Go on the pill, or use other methods.
Horrible experience in regards to constant bleeding since May. Constant meaning I've had probably 4 days per month where I haven't bled. I've had 2 shots and will NOt be getting anymore. I was placed on it to prepare for fibroid surgery in July, and am seriously tired of bleeding every single day- id rather have a period that is at least regular rather than hit or miss every day. I haven't had any emotional side effects except for major frustration. Horrible. Would not recommend.
I used depo long term 5+ years ago. I stopped because at some point, not right away, the del before my next shot i was a totally different person. Nothing anyone could say would make laugh or even smile. I was irritated and angry, snapping for no reason etc. I went off for 5+ years. Now I'm 48 and experiencing horrific perimenopause affects like constant bleeding, debilitating cramps, extreme fatigue, horrible gas, etc. So I thouight I'd try again. Please note, I've tried several form of the pill and I get terrible stomach cramps with all of them. Tried at night, with or without food, nothing worked. The IUD is expensive and painful and that freaks me out. So l just got my 3rd shot and 2 days later I'm a crazy person! Feeling very low energy and insecure. My bf fell asleep last night so he didn't answer my text and I created this story in my head thinking that he was cheating on me. It got way out of hand. First of all, this is completely out of character. Second, he's the most amazing person I have ever met and he has never given me any reason to doubt his love for me. I'm about to blue the best relationship of my life and the only thing that makes sense is depo.
My experience with depo has probably been the worst by far. I thought I was just going through something with myself and felt like I was going crazy. The first two months I had it I was really depressed to the point that I would cry every day and just thought that everything was going wrong for me. It was terrible, all my life I never felt that way till I started depo. Maybe it just affected me differently but I would never take this again. It just made me feel so bad about myself; I kept overthinking a lot which I never used to do. Other than that, I feel like on depo, I easily bled, like I was very sensitive. And now that i'm due for my next shot soon, I've been feeling sick, nauseous and was bleeding for 2 weeks straight. I just can't wait to switch back to the pill because the past 3 months have driven me crazy.
Two weeks after taking I IMMEDIATELY Become suicidal, crippling depression, hair thinning, STILL had a period that lasted longer than 2 weeks, migraines, cramps, vision loss, And more. I'm literally only taking this to keep my endometriosis from progressing, my seizure meds counteract this birth control to make it less effective as birth control so I can't use it as BC... ILL KILL MYSELF BEFORE GETTING THIS GARBAGE AGAIN.
Absoluteeeeely awful. Don't know how it's legal. Only just starting to feel normal again after this shot sent me round the bend feeling like I was going crazy, panic attacks, depressed to the point of feeling suicidal. Hot flushes, fatigue, body aches, headaches !! Don't do it. Seriously. Birth control is just toxic NEVER again would I take any form of birth control after this experience. So glad I am actually returning to my old self! They don't warn you what the potential side effects are and that they can take months and months to leave your system
This was my first form of birth control, I was 16 when I first got the depo shot and it only lasted about 6 months. I had many negative side effects while on depo including depression (to the point where I became suicidal), I became moody and felt irritated 24/7 and just wanted to cry all the time, I was spotting for the first 2 months and my periods became very irregular, my acne started to get even worse, and my sex drive decreased. I experienced pretty much all of the negative side effects from the depo shot, but I guess on the bright side I didn't get pregnant. I am now 20 and once I switched to the pill all of the side effects went away and I started to become myself again. This birth control was hell for me and I would never get back on it.
I got my first depo shot 3 months ago. I'm debating on whether or not I want to continue getting the shot. One month after getting my first shot, I started my period and I had severe cramps. It went away thankfully, but I've been spotting here and there and it's honestly annoying. My sex drive is eh' I haven't been enjoying sex like I did before I got the shot and that is pretty annoying. I'm dry and I've read that the depo shot can chase dryness of the vagina walls? So I guess that's the problem. But other than that, I'm not pregnant. Very light periods and spotting here and there. Sex drive isn't too high. I've found myself being more stressed out and waking up feeling depressed like. Very low feeling and I end up crying when I feel this way. So I'm not really sure on whether or not I want to get my next shot which is pretty soon. I'm also concerned about getting pregnant in the future. I've read girls experiences on the struggle of trying to get pregnant after the shot and I'm afraid if I continue with the shot, I'm gonna mess my insides completely up to the point I won't be able to have any...
I've been on Depo for the past 6 years and love it. Its extremely effective and not having a period is such a luxury. Regardless of how unhealthy it may be, these 6 years of not having cramps, back aches, headaches and feeling just not so fresh has made me never want a period again. I plan to stay on it for as long as the doctors will let me. They've made me get two bone density scans which both came back normal. The only down side is having to go to the office to get the shot, and if you don't like getting shots that too. I hate shots but this one is quick and generally painless. Just depends on who gives it to you.
first month was awesome! then i started to bleed really bad my dr said it was fine just a side effect. year later im off the shot but am still bleeding. I've been bleeding over a year now, hurts to pee, hurts during intercourse, terrible migraines that last for weeks, breast are sore and it made my eye vision worse! 18302/10 would not recommend. If anyone has had these same symptoms can you tell me how to fix this?
I took my first shot of Depo on 26 June 2018 for birth control. I have been bleeding non stop since the day I took this shot with not break. I would advice anyone not to take this. No one has answers to why you bleed for such a long time except to repeat text book phrase from the makers of the drug. Here it is now going on the 12th week of not taking the medication and I really hope that it is completely out of my system. I will never ever take Depo ever again. There is no sex life and I have been so depressed and it is ruining my sex life.
I just got my second shot of the depo 2 days ago and last night I woke up bawling because I was stuck. I got the shot in my left arm and during the night, my arm neck and shoulder got so stiff I couldn't move at all. My husband had to come move me. Having 2 infants it is quite an inconvenience.
PLEASE PLEASE do NOT take. I have been doing so much research on this evil drug after not being told anything from my doctor. I received two shots in December 2016. Since then I have no regular cycle and just had an ectopic pregnancy. Coming to find out this shot is referred to as the poor person poison!!!!! I am going to continue to what I can to get this drug off the market. It was denied by the fda three times before finally approving it. do not take!!!
I wouldn't recommend this I am currently on this and about to get off of it because it caused me to have vagina discharged and still wouldn't go away. I thought that I caught it from my sexual partner. But it turns out I got it from here. And this would be over after two injections.
I know a lot of people have had negative reviews with depo. It honestly depends on the person. I have been on depo for over a year, and overall have been pleased. I did experience some severe bleeding towards the end of my first year, but I received my shots earlier and it cleared up. My period completely stopped after 2 shots. I stopped depo for 2 months due to studying abroad and not having access to a shot update. I was on the pill for those two months and I hated it. So I went back on depo about a month ago. This time around I am having cramping and lower back pain, but I did stop taking it routinely so my body will have to adjust again. I haven't gained any weight...I've actually lost weight. This is either a hit or miss method honestly. I chose this method because I was terrible at remembering pills and it's super effective.
Do NOT take this evil drug! I took one shot almost a year ago and I am still messed up from it! For several months, I had no period. However, I had already been diagnosed with depression and this medication caused me to spiral into a crippling state in which I would barely get up out of bed. After not getting my period for months, I will now bleed heavily for 5-10 days, then stop, then start again for another 5-10 days. It is completely unpredictable and I am just starting to come out of the depression. It will mess you up! Stay away from this option!
I had this shot about 6 weeks ago. I went on the shot as I wanted to treat PMDD and apparently this was the only drug available to me because of the mental healtg isssues I have, the doctor suggested tgus was the only that may be able to help with the PMDD. She said there were 2 different ways I could take it and I said its probably best I try the tablets first however she convinced me to take the shot. I have had PMDD symptoms EVERYDAY since having fhe shot. I cry for no reason and am contstantly breaking down. My antidepressants are obselete and now I am on calmatives (that are really bad for you) just to keep the panic attacks and and OCD symptoms at bay. Ive evn had to go to a day clinic because of the state of my mental health. I went back to tell the doctor what had happened and she said AND I quote "you wanted it and you came to see me about it" "I said that maybe it was a good idea sge told me the side affects with depression as she knew what I had. "She said I am not legally oblidged to tell you as there is only a small percentage of woman that react the way you have" AND "then she says....I would be here for 5 years telling you all the side affects". I was gob smacked!! I
I have been on the depo shot for a little over a year now. I used to be on the pill, but wasn't the best at taking it. Well, I failed to read reviews before getting the shot. I noticed side effects after the first dose but just thought my body needed time to get used to it. Wrong. My body hasn't gotten used to it, it's gotten worse. Although I haven't experienced weight gain, I surely have noticed worse side effects. My periods never went away, which is fine.. but what isn't fine is them lasting over 1-2 weeks. Currently over 3 at the moment. They are so sporadic and after my period I get some sort of sticky blood for a week. They fluctuate between light and heavy the entire time, so choosing what tampon/pad to wear was a nightmare. I have been experiencing AWFUL mood swings and slight depression and anxiety. I lash out at the smallest things, and it's honestly effecting my relationship. I would rather have a 5 day period with the pill every month than go through this torture any longer. Every women is different, but with the reviews I've been reading they're just about the same. Don't get the shot.
At first it was a great birth control for me. I always have AWFUL cramps, and I didn't have a period at all on Depo. But when I came to the end of my three months on the shot, I had a 3 week long period! It wasn't heavy bleeding, but it was painful. Now, I have began my Apri 28 day pill again, and I began the sugar pill on this past Sunday. My period didn't start until that next Saturday, and is more heavy and painful than any period I had before birth control. It is awful, and I suggest not using it if you intend to quit it if you don't like it. I tried it, didn't like it, and now I'm in severe pain from the cramps and heavy period as a result of stopping the injections after only 3 months.
It's been two months since I received my first shot and I am literally counting down the days until this leaves my system. I'm an active person and eat healthy and I am literally always fatigued to the point I have to lay down or take a nap by noon. I'm depressed and have terrible mood swings. It seems to be the worst at night which I would like to understand why. It's severely affecting my relationship with my boyfriend because I just can not shake my sadness and snap over the littlest things. Please ladies, do your research before jumping into this contraceptive. I wish I did. But after a pregnancy scare I was so quick to get on one that I didn't realize the deterimental effects.
I started using the injection as I'm quite forgetful with my pill. However it was horrific, yes I didn't get periods. But my acne went from moderate to cystic, covering my entire back, creating boils on my face and constant blackheads regardless of what I did. I also managed to put on two stone in weight, which people had warned be about. However I thought it would just be an increase in appetite which it wasn't, no matter what I did (gym / ate healthy / walked everywhere) I was piling it on. I've now got stretch marks everywhere and I've gone from being a healthy / nearly underweight BMI to overweight? in a matter of months. I also became extremely depressed in the first month of being on it, often crying and feeling really anxious for no reason (which isn't like me) Girls, I'd completely avoid taking this. Yes no periods are nice, but it's honestly not worth it.
What I liked about this medication is that my period pretty much disappeared, no cramping, and not preggo lol. But it was not worth it for me emotionally. I'm normally a pretty chill person but during depo I experience some really bad mood swings and anger outburst. Especially towards my boyfriend, he took the heat of it all. I would be pissed off over little things and was not able to let go. Went from 0 to 100 real quick. Sometimes wasn't sure what I was so angry about but couldn't let it go. Thank god he understands lol
After having my second child, I figured this would be a good choice of birth control. I have not seen my period in almost a year, which is great since my periods were very bad to begin with. My sex drive has heightened a lot, when it was very low ! When taking this shot, my hunger increases on a 10 scale, causing me to eat more than usual which has caused some weight gain. I have always been very thin, Starting out at 94 lbs before having my first child and 106 lbs before having my second. With this shot I am able to gain at 5 lbs. Being 121.8 recently off of the shot and 126.4 while on, so it fluctuates. I do not expect to exceed this weight gain since my metabolism is active and I walk everrrryday. With all of the low ratings of this shot, our bodies are all different. I thought that the side effects would occur and worsen, however, there are not any that I am complaining about atm. I am grateful for this birth control and would ditch the pills any day !!
I've been taking it for 3 years now and I'm an Junior in High School, and I've been getting really bad migraines and really bad dizziness with it. The drug is fine with my weight because I haven't gained much weight. I would recommend this drug but there's other problems with it.
It destroyed my body. So then I went to the doctors, and since they are either ignorant or trying to cover themselves, they said I was just “anxious” whatever that means. Judging by these comments I see I'm not crazy. The side effects are very real. Acne, fatigue, anxiety, depression, and even fibromyalgia-like symptoms...
Hit or miss. I took Depot when I was in high school &I liked it then. I just gave birth 3 months ago & thought the shot would be a good idea. I have the migraines every other day, severe cramps, unbelieveable crazy mood swings, high anxiety & depression.
I only took one shot of this and will never go back on this again. I had three months of constant bleeding and high anxiety and depression. Since finishing the shot I started multi vitamins to re balance my system and to help with the hair thinning. I would not recommend this drug if you have had it then I would strongly suggest supplements of vitamins to help balance your system.
Had depo shot 4 times and kept hoping my body would get used to it but it never. Bleeding constantly, cramps worse than I had before even with extremely bad period cramps. As a very active person and gym go-er, lost all motivation and constantly felt tired. Generally not an emotional person but constant mood swings and extremely emotional on this. Doctors don't tell you enough of the side effects of this! Will never use this again, horrible experience.
Ladies. All of our bodies are different and respond differently. While some women claim to have gained weight, I lost weight. I am super satisfied with this birth control. I get one period per year, each being 2 weeks long. But that is not a bad price to pay. If you think about it, collectively, a normal period takes up to 4 months of a year. I struggle with depression and anxiety, and I can vouch and say that, AS LONG AS YOU TAKE YOUR PRESCRIBED MEDICATION FOR DEPRESSION/ANXIETY, you will be okay. I promise. I have also gained an increased sex drive. I rate it 10/10.
i'm 17 years old and was told depo would be good for me but it was the worst decision i ever made. I already had acne and it made it so much worse, my hair was falling out, i was moody 24/7 and hated every minute. It worked really well as a contraceptive however the side effects were horrific for me. It also messed with my weight and overall was not worth it.
I have been taking the depo shot for 2 years now. I love it. No periods no pain no pregnancy and my bf and I are very active. Although I have gained weight after my pregnancy I couldnt be happier with the gain i was super skinny and now i have curves. I work out so the gain has moatly turned muscle but I recommend this to anyone who meets the criteria in getting it. Yes my sex drive has gone down a bit we just have gotten more creative in the bedroom. If i could give this 10 stars I would. Best birth control next to the pill. Ill never consider and iud I always tell my friends about the depo!!!
Never I repeat never will I take this birth control again. After my primary doctor knowing about my mental health issues prior to taking this I am very very disappointed in her as a physician. She did not inform me and I trusted her as she's my doctor and has been for 14 + years. Almost immediately I start feeling down, I worked out consistently before this shot, ate clean and was finally “over my depression” thanks to this shot I lost all motivation, gained weight, and have been the crazy girlfriend! This medication literally changed everything I worked so hard for. I've been on this for 6 months now and have canceled my upcoming appointment and will be using condoms as I feel I need my body to get back to normal.
I wish I had read through more reviews before getting the shot. My friend gets it and gets absolutely no side effects and it works great, but this is only my first week in and my anxiety and depression is HORRIBLE. I've always struggled with anxiety and had depression on and off, but this shot brings them both out full force. I'm having the worst mood swings and crying at random times for absolutely no reason. I wish my doctor had warned me more about this shot before she gave it to me, knowing about my ongoing anxiety and depression. I do NOT recommend taking the shot. I hate taking pills and I already take so many, so I thought this would be a good idea and I was so wrong. Please don't get the shot!!!
I got this shot about 3 weeks ago after I had my first baby. I have been bleeding constantly since I got it. It started out light spotting and now it's heavy. My whole right side hurts and I'm getting a sharp pain in my right hip. I'm very irritable all the time an the mood swings are driving me crazy. I'm exhausted all the time, even after having my girl I wasn't this tired. I wouldn't recommend this shot to anyone. If I had read reviews first I would have never got it. My doctor didn't even tell me it would be or could be this bad. I'm never getting this shot again.
I was on the depo prevera for 5 years and i loved it. I never got my period. Did not have any side effects. I got off of it because my husband and I wanted kids. got my period right away , got pregnant 6months later. I recommend the Depo provera. I think every women's body is different. wont hurt to try this birth control.
Depo Provera caused my muscles to atrophy and had unwanted weight gain. I had consistent heavy bleeding for months if not for the entire year. Once it slowed down and stopped, I would have bleeding during intercourse. Today, many years later, exercise at gym. Still cannot obtain the body I used to have. Have trouble building muscle. Feel looked great before Depo Provera. Had nice body, butt, arms, legs, breast. Today hard to get butt back. Too soft, especially on one side. Body looks okay. Just want to be toned like I was naturally. Feel so much regret. Do not take. Try something else, please. Also have hyperthyroidism. Saw someone developed that too who had taken the shot.
I took the tidme to do research on every possible birth control method, but once it came down to it i chose the depo shot. I have been bleeding for 20!consecutive days and counting. No where dud i ever read nir did sny doctor or nurse say it was possible to bleed for this long. I would highly recommend being persistant and taking the pill and will never receive another depo shot nor ever recommend it to anyone for any reason . I'll update if the bkeeding ever does stop.
I got the depo shortly after having my daughter. I don't recommend it if you already have anixiety/depression. I experienced very unpleasant side effects which included mood swings. I was very snappy and I had no interest in sex what so ever. I thought this was going to be a good choice since I am very forgetful. But I will never have another depo shot again. I'm back on the pill.
Getting the depo shot was the worst decision I have ever made. I got the shot 6 months ago and have been bleeding constantly since then, and dealing with constant cramping. It made my depression worse, and has made me gain 10+ pounds. Do not ever get this shot, you will regret it.
I have been on depo for almost 3 yrs I have no periods /. I got pregnant on the pill so I don't trust it. I did gain weight and it's made it really hard for me to lose weight but having another child is not financially or mentally acceptable right now.
I would never recommend this to anyone. I am 14 years old and I began taking this shot to control my heavy painful periods. The shot worked right away and stopped my periods but I got really terrible side effects, and at one point I bleed for 3 weeks. My cramps got worse I gained over 20 pounds *and I am super athletic I do track and basketball* my legs became useless and hurt 24/7 I became super moody and all I wanted to do was sleep. At 4 months in taking the shot I was put in the hostipal due to unbearable pain and bloating. If you have anxiety,depression,or painful periods before the Depo-Provera shot I would not recommend it!
i would not recommend to anyone. the only benefit is this drug prevents pregnancy, the side effects of this drug are HORRINDOUS. Anxiety, depression, uncontrolled mood swings, LOSS of sex drive and worst of all WEIGHT GAIN. you WILL gain weight on this depo shot. This should be made illegal. Horrible.
After my first Depo shot, I began bleeding, some days heavy, some light for about eight weeks straight. After that, it was a continuous brown, sticky blood for four more weeks. I started to feel super depressed shortly after my first shot and my pre-existing anxiety condition worsened. I didn't think much of it until after my second shot, as I was moving and going through a stressful time. I also became moody and extremely irritable. I also had panic and crying attacks for no reason. After my second dose, everything worsened. I didn't want to leave my bed; I felt so depressed. I never wanted to have sex with my boyfriend. The thought of having sex actually made me cringe. My bones ached. I'm 25 and I felt like I was 80. My legs became so restless and I constantly felt panicky. The mood swings were unbearable for me and anyone around me. I didn't even want to be hugged or touched. I've never felt so awful in my entire life. The benefit is not worth the risk to me. I will never get another depo shot. Hopefully I can regain my life back.
Worst mistake ever. Migraines, mood swings, for flashes, weight gain, depression, suicidal thoughts, anxiety. This has destroyed me after one shot
I only took depo-provera once over 4 months ago and haven't got my period since, which I guess isn't a bad thing. BUT, I'm loosing so much hair. I had beautiful thick curly hair and now I'm loosing it it clumps and it's very thin. Do not take this!!
I've been on depo provera for a year and a half. Just this last dosage has been bad as far as 8lbs weight gain and cramps here and there that make you feel pregnant. Other than that, it's 100% effective and no periods ??
It gave me an allergic reaction.
Depo is ruining my life. I have currently been on the shot for five weeks and I've been bleeding for the last two. Have horrible stomach pains that causes me not to eat ( lost about 12 pounds). I initially used it to stop my period because I'm nauseous a lot when i get it, but at this point i rather have my period than deal with this misery again. This is horrible! DO NOT TAKE THE SHOT!
I initially tried Depo because I had heard that the side effects were mostly weight gain ( I didn't mind that.) I wanted something to help my period cramps and prevent pregnancy. It did just what it had to do but the side effects were not worth it to me. I don't like taking pills and I knew I would forget but the 3 months this was in my body was horrible. I had nausea every single day, lost about 10 pounds (weighing only 95lbs), I had extreme anxiety and depression ended up dropping out of school because I couldn't get in a car. I even had chest palpitations and zero sex drive. This was my first birth control and It's been over a year and I still don't feel right. My period cramps are now much worse than before and I'm terrified to try any other. I know everyone is different but this was my personal experience with this drug. I've learned that I can prevent pregnancy by monitoring my cycle and be careful with my partner. I also found that healthy foods and exercise make my period more tolerable. Much better than added hormones.
DONT TAKE THIS DRUG!! Can cause pituitary problems
During the first few weeks, I experienced a heavy period that wouldn't stop; going through 3 packs of tampons/pads. As well as vigorous cramps, these subsided as well as my period and I was left to great vaginal dryness until much later, my partner and I are sexually active and it's been difficult when I'm bleeding or spotting almost constantly, I do love that it's highly effective although. I've also noticed an increased mood change, angriness and irritability, headaches and bloating. Symptoms I never had which were normal during a period I now have, I have however stopped feeling nauseous during my period but because of the blood loss I'm sure it's made me quite anemic, from only missing one day of food I found myself passing out; may or may not be correlated. I'd recommend this, but check with your doctor first and do please answer the questions truthfully, you only want what's best for you and everyone has a different experienfe. As an 18 year old, this has been my first dose recommended due to not wanting the pill, and now on my second 3 week period; lots of side effects during the first few days, and sex is difficult but manageable with a towel.
Getting the depo shot was one of the worst decisions I've ever made. I only got it once. A week after getting it my depression got a lot worse, was feeling very suicidal. Decreased my sex drive. I was spotting the whole time while on it. It's been a month now since the birth control wore off & I had thought I gotten my period cause I was having cramps & bleeding for a week. But then a few days later I started bleeding again. It's probably gonna be like this for at least another few months....
Do not use the depo if you plan on starting a family. I have been on the depo for about 6 years. Worst decision ever now I am trying for a family. I came off the depo in May last year. I only got my periods back September and the are all over the place totally irregular, I have had repeated pregnancy symptoms and no positive test. I went to the doctors to ask for blood tests to check my hormones and they have come back high prolactin- which a fertility and sexual health nurse is saying is more than likely due to this injection as all the other tests were fine. I would only recommend this if you dont want children or have had children and don't want any more.
never taking ever again ,have had hives itchy rashes every day since i took my first and only shot of depo ,im covered head to toe in hives ,worse thing ever ,i now had to wait till its out of my system and hoping the hive go ,if they dont then i have a condition called auto immune progesterone dermatitis triggered by depo ,great eh ,i wouldnt recommend this to my worse enemy!!!
I've taken the Depo-Provera for a long time, ever since I was at least 15-17 years old, I never had any side effects, except having no periods for at least over 1 to 2 years, other than that the shot works perfectly for me. (The only thing that I dislike about it that, it takes me almost forever to get my period back.)
Fine for the first month's other then mood swings..now I have terrible panic attacks no sex drive at all and terrible headache. Oh and have not bled for over two years.Found out they give this drug to sex offenders to reduce their sex drive . Doctors should give you ALL the side effects before you take it. Not just say oh possible weight gain and hair loss. It has been the worst years of my life. It should be illegal. After you get off it if you haven't had a period at all you will have terrible clotting.
I have been on the Depo-Provera for a yr now I did bleed/spot for the first six months of my treatment, I also did the same when I started the pill at 17 yrs of age. I took a 18 months break between the pill and shot. It took me sixth months to regain my regular cycle from the pill. I'd assume the same from any hormonal birth control I decided to take. It took months for my body to adjust to the pill or shot seems logical my body will take time to adjust back to its natural state...put something in gotta take something out ladies.
My doctor recommended this drug to help with my painful/heavy cycles. It stopped my period for the first month and then I began bleeding non-stop the second month. It has been 4 weeks of non-stop bleeding (heavy at times) so far. Also immediately after taking the drug I became depressed, I lost ALL libido, and it has become extremely painful to have sex or use a tampon. This experience has been a nightmare. I don't understand why doctor's are choosing to recommend this drug to women. If I had known this drug would come with all these horrible side affects I would not have taken it even if it was a guarantee period fix. Just an awful awful drug that has ruined my mental and physical health.
I took this because my husband and I want another baby one day and I didn't want to get the tubal ligation. I have only had 1 and I have bled straight this entire month, between heavy and then spotting and then back to heavy. I am extremely tired. I have extreme cramps and they are awful. Terrible mood swings and very emotional over little things. I am not pregnant. I have felt extremely depressed and sometimes even think of self harm. It is very scary. I do not reccomend this to anyone.
Experienced terrible moods, depression and rage all the time. Have been bleeding for nonstop, zero sex drive!
I took this thinking it would help lighten my awful heavy periods. BIG MISTAKE!!! Immediately, I began breaking out horribly and suffering from extremely painful cramps. I didn't have a period for the first 2 months. For the last month I have had a heavy period and irregular spotting. I have been really depressed after taking Depo and moody. It has been awful!! I also have had no sex drive at all! I can't wait for this to leave my system. I will NEVER take it again. (1 dose = DONE) HORRIBLE!!! I guess I am really sensitive to hormones. If you are like me, please don't take this.
I've never expirienced any side affects at all everything has flowed very smoothly for me! It's very efficient in preventing pregnancy and it's nice because you get a shot then don't worry about it for 12 weeks! It is a little bit risky though because in order for it to work, you have to get it exactly at the 12 week mark but yea it works really well and I strongly recommend it to everyone!
I didn't have my period for about a month and a half after taking the shot. 5 days of regular menstruating and I have been spotting ever since. Not happy.
I just recently stopped the depo, I was supposed to go in for my third shot in January and just didnt. I'm now experiencing some strange stuff. The most alarming "side effect" is I feel like my uterus area, (and some of my belly) is having a muscle spasm from the inside out.. not sure if anyone else has experienced this type of feeling after stopping the depo.. everyone's experiences are different.. But if someone has felt this or knows what I mean, Please don't hesitate to share your wisdom. Thanks.
I jusy received my 3rd shot and so far everything has been great! I notice I no longer have severe mood swings at all during the whole month (i used to feel the rage) and no bleeding at all! Only complaint is for a day or so pain and itching in the injection site
Horrific experience with the Depo. Non stop bleeding for essentially 12 months. Thought my body would adjust, but this shot was poison to my body. Also had extremely negative thoughts (self harm) for the first month after the first shot. In saying this, my sister has had Depo shots for 10 years with no side effect. Every person will react differently, but be aware it is irreversible for a long time once it's done and if your body responds negatively it is pure torture. I discussed my issues with my GP and am now on a different form of the pill Yasmin which my body agrees with 100%. Try the Depo if you like but be warned, it's 'convenience may come with a price.
I started developing breast milk, and After being off of depo for a while i noticed that I have developed a pus-like yellowish ooze coming from my breasts. I was wondering if anyone else has had this issue and if so, what do I need to do?
My pain from endometriosis was so bad I was walking around holding my stomach and the pain was non stop. I was having trouble going to work and doing anything. This is my third shot and my pain is gone. Only side affect is weight gain.
Wow! I'm shocked after reading these reviews that Depo can cause all these problems in certain women, but that just shows you how different everyone bodies is, I recently got back on the Depo, I was on it years ago after having my first child for 6 years, it was awesome, the first 2 months my Cycle was on and off, but after that I had NO cycle Period. No weight issues, and No mood swings, I Suggest anyone who is using any birth control methods to watch what they eat and drink so they won't gain unwanted weight while on birth control. To be honest I was off birth control for 3 years to give my body a break and I have gain the most weight ever lol with NO BIRTH Control, So now I'm back on the Depo and loving it.
i started depo last september without previously being on birth control. the immediate side effects were excessive sweating in areas where i already had issues with over-perspiration, and flu-like symptoms in the few days after getting it. it was okay until i tried having sex. it was extremely painful to the point where i couldn't even try to enjoy it, kind of like a burning sensation that i knew could only be either the shot or a yeast infection. wasn't an infection so it must've been the shot but i didn't know why. after sex i would bleed immediately like a period, and then spot for about a week after. upon research i found out that depo can actually cause vaginal dryness and weaken your vaginal walls, which can cause the burning pain and blood. this was a big deal for me but decided to continue with it and see if it gets better. in december i was due for another shot but my doctor wouldn't give me another because he was concerned about my hormone levels. i had to wait for my referral appointment which was weeks later, so with the shot wearing off in the meantime i bled constantly throughout those weeks which was probably a month, and would've kept bleeding if i didn't get anothe
DO NOT TAKE THIS DRUG. It is awful. I'm nauseated and vommiting constantly as well as having horrible stomach cramps and abdominal pain, bleeding, migraines and everything else. HORRIBLE. Please please please don't take it, you will regret it.
The worse thing ever depot shot it's a poison I got the shot once I gain sooooo much weight I eat none stop I'm always mad I have the darkest bloody period ever please don't not get it I begged u I been trying to get pregnant for14 months nothing yet
Horrible! I spotted for 9 months straight! I went to a gynecologist and was told everything was fine, and she recommended the pill instead. Ever since I've been taking the pill, I haven't spotted since! I'd recommend the pill instead.
I'm onto my second shot (yesterday) and the only side effect I've had with both shots is the pain running down my leg (the side I had the shot in my bottom) and pain where the shot was administered, mind you it only lasts for about 12 to 24 hours but after that it's fantastic, no other side affects and no period. I'll be on this one for a good while I think as I'm done having my children.
I've been using the depo shot for three years. It was a miracle at first, with minimal side effects (light spotting). Then it went away and I didn't have any more problems. Fast forward to Nov. 6, 2017 (my last injection). The day after is when I started having pelvic pain. It stopped after I took Ibuprofen. Then it came back on Thanksgiving day. Then again TODAY. I'm starting to worry it might be a cyst or something. I've been asking doctors and nurses and not a single one of them can give me a straight answer. So tomorrow, I'll be making an appointment with a gynecologist, for a peace of mind.
Tried a Depot shot for the convenience..never again due to side effects. None stop bleeding for 2 months, sex drive obliterated, WEIGHT GAIN no matter how much you eat healthy and exercise. This is much worse than the pill and not worth the convenience at all. Deeply regret not researching this drug before taking it. Read about major weight gain after coming off the shot so bracing myself for that...
I've been on the depo shot for 2 or 3 months now I got my 2nd ever depo shot like 2 weeks ago I've been getting really bad acne ever since but I decided to go for another shot because my acne went away due to the depo shot was wearing off , I've gotten mood swings . But the 2nd shot fucked me up really bad it's making me go crazy and it's making mental health worse ! I literally been really sensitive and before it I was already a sensitve person , my anger issues have gotten worse . Ive been crying everyday for the littliest things i start to think about shit and i get really depressed I went from pills to the depo shot due to that I would forget to take them every night . It's affecting my relationship also , I haven't gained weight at all the only 1 good thing about this birth control method is that no more periods . I would never ever recommend it to anybody it will ruin your life! Stay away from that shit im going to go back to the pills it makes my skin clear no bad side effects etc... birth control pills are the best choice in my opinion
I would never recommend this to anyone. This is my first kind of birth control. I started when I was 16, now 18. Starting off was a pain in the butt because the prolonged bleeding, I mean come on ?? I bled non stop for a month straight twice!! then about 7 months into it I haven't got a period since. That is the only reason I like it, Being pad free is amazing but now I realize my mental health is more important. I started becoming more and more depressed each day now, Really a lack of motivation. I found myself to be more cranky than ever, and frequently snap at people. I hate this drug so much because of it! Everytime i tell myself I won't take it again I still do, only because I know I'm ging to be bleeding like crazy non stop when the drugs wear off but I now miss my 28 day cycle, i miss being natural. My next shot is in November and it will be my last shot only because my surgery is in december and I really dont want to bleed like crazy. Stay away from the depo is all I need to say
Yeah, it was great not having a period... totally. Just one problem, We have to have a period, just wait til your vagina sets out and sex hurts and you start getting a ton of infections. Then you will see why. I took the depp 2004 2005 2006. Took 2 years to start have a period again after that, and when I did... omg it was horrible. Got off depp Dec 2006, stated trying to have another kid in 2011, never took any other kind of Birth control in my life mind you, before or after depo. Didn't get pregnant until Feb 2014, took 3 years and I had already been off the shot for 5 years. Thought that was the end of it, nope!!! I bleed so bad now that instead of pads I wear adult diapers, my uterus is completely filled with palyps... I'm 35 years old and I'm having a hysterectomy Monday moring.But a least I won't have a period anymore, right? * hints of sarcasm * could happen to anyone right? Not really, my Gyno said that thousands of women are going through the same thing as me, you know what we all have in common? Depo!!!! Just sayin'.
I can vouch for the positives of being on the Depo shot. Guys... it's the best thing ever, yes there can be side effects and it's going to be different for everyone but my God is it worth it. No period or PMS... AT ALL, its glorious. I do however let my body have a rest between shots, so I will get one and let it run its course, let myself have a period and then get back on it. I honestly can't see why people complain so much, I haven't seen any changes in weight or mood or hair or skin, just no period lol And I was able to get pregnant in about 5 months after I got off it to try for a baby. I say try it at the very least, let your body adjust and enjoy all the splendors of this wonderful birth control.
I was having a period that would not stop. I bled so much in 16 days that I ended up having a blood transfusion. My OBGYN automatically gave me this injection without me really knowing anything about it. I agreed after all I had been through. About the time my first period would have came, I did have some brown spotting. Then I continued to spot until I would have had my second period. I bled this time. Red blood and it was like a light period for about a week. After this, I have not seen a drop of anything. I am not going to get another only because I feel like that never ending period was stress related and I want to be as natural as possible. I am going to get off this shot and just let my body do what it needs to do and HOPE I don't have another crazy period as I had. I will be getting off this shot in about 4 days. I didn't mind spotting especially after bleeding heavy/clots for over 2 weeks. Other than that, I cannot recall any side effects. I did NOT gain any weight. No mood changes or anything indifferent that I am aware of. I HATE medications and that is the only reason I have chosen to let this be my one and only shot. I did consider just because I am loving not having
I was on the pill for over 6 years and had no issues but towards the end I started spotting everyday for well over a month so my doctor suggested switching birth controls. He mentioned the depo shot which all the benefits(shot 4 times a year, no pregnancy, no period?? Yes please!) in my mind outweighed a lot of the side effects I heard about. First month or so was great, no spotting or cramping, no period or mood swings. Then came the third month and I began to spot every single day for well over a month. I got another shot (assuming that the bleeding was just my body getting used to a new form of BC) and the bleeding continued. Some days or even weeks would go by and I wouldn't spot, other times I would spot for a few days, other times I would bleed heavily for weeks. I never know when I'll spot which is incredibly annoying!! Now that I have been on it for six months, it is safe to say that with the craziness of mood swings, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, acne, cramps, and WEIGHT GAIN, I will never recommend or be on this shot ever again. It's like the longer you're on the shot the worse the side effects get. I just got back on a different pill so at least I'll know when I'll ge
I've always had horrible experiences with my period and the pill made me ill so for a really long time I was on no birth control at all but I recently got my second DP injection and I have to say I am *so* relieved to not have a period! Mine were so heavy, I had awful cramps, and sometimes I would even throw up! Not to mention I have a history of other funky stuff going on like I had a benign polyp removed and frequently have abnormal paps. Anyway, hopefully I'm not being premature about this but I am pretty pleasantly surprised-- I really hate the thought of getting an IUD so I believe this is my best option
Been taking this on and off since i was 18 and its worked. No problems when i got off to take a break from it except periods and pregnancy ?????? oh and my hair only grows so far
I have been on the shot for 7yrs now, the first few yrs I was fine no side affects, but as time flew by I started to experience some of the listed side effects. However, I had to put on my big girl panties and keep pushing because I didn't want to take any chances of having a baby knowing I wasn't ready. I still don't have any kids which is by choice, I switch to the pills 1mo ago, but soon I will be off of birth control for good because it's frustrating to me to have read so many reviews some bad some good, everyone is different, but no one has really spoken on the fact that some of these contraceptions can put you high risk for certain cancers while reducing the risk for other cancers, HOW CONTRADICTING IS THAT!?? Not to mention the late night advertisements warning us or even the high possibility of osteoporosis for menopausal women, or when it's our time to go through menopause. I'm not against birth control, everybody's different so finding the right birth control could be trial and error but please do your research before hand and too much off anything isn't good for you, that's the world we live in, so if 2 yrs is the recommended time to be on the shot then please don't ove
After I took shot I experienced spotting everyday, nausea, dizziness, abdominal pain, rapid changes of mood and struggle to focus and remember things. I would never recommend this to anyone. This should be banned
I got sick and it took a year to get pregnant not my Dr said I'm not ovulating or releasing eggs and my testosterone to high and I took depo for a month 1/2 that was Is 2011 I tried a year to get pregnant I did in 2015 and I trying again I bean trying for 11 months now and I have to be on provera to have my menstrual cycle and I did and nothing don't know when I ovulate now and i chart and still nothing
This shot has ruined my life. I started it almost 9 months ago, 3 shots so far. I would never recommend it to anyone, not even my own worst enemy. I can't believe this drug is even legal and on the market. It has turned me into a monster. I feel like Godzilla about to break at any moment. It has ruined my relationship with my boyfriend, family, friends, and even work and social life. Not to mention I have 0 sex drive. I'm only 21. I should not be feeling this way and it all started from the day of my very first shot!! I feel like I'm living in someone else's body and crawling in my own skin. I hate being such an angry, miserable person all the time. I am never doing this again and I am terrified of how long it will take for me to feel normal again, if I ever will. Ladies, you've been warned. I feel betrayed by my gyno for not caring about my mental well being. I even confronted her when I met for my second shot and my third! She had nothing to say and just brushed it off as if my problems were not related to the shot, but I know my body and I know they are related. This is not healthy or okay. Do deep research ladies, not just on gov websites that want more people to take it. Look
Depo-provera almost killed me. After using this stuff I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia, osteoporosis, high blood pressure, chronic fatigue syndrome, and beginning stages of lupus. I also bled for 11 months straight and would have times where I couldn't see anything but white and black speckles, kind of like on a static white noise television. I just kept getting sicker and sicker and weaker and weaker. When my gynecologist suggested a hysterectomy I decided no one had any clue why I was so sick when I had always been the epitome of health. I knew I needed to do my own research. I researched all of my symptoms and that's how I found out it was Depo-Provera poisening. My research on Depo-provera poisoning lead me to people who were able to detox from it naturally by going all raw. Everything I read made sense and added up perfectly. Eating all raw means eating only foods like raw fruits and vegetables, nuts and seeds, and sprouted grains. The science behind it is raw food is packed full of nutrients, minerals, and enzymes, which are all intact and in full force because the food hasn't been destroyed or altered by being cooked. With eating only raw, a body is
I took this shot in my younger years. I bled the whole time it was in my system. I even ended up in urgent care, thinking that they could make it stop. When it was finally out of my system I felt like myself again. I strongly discouraged my daughter from taking this shot but the doctor convinced her to because of the convenience. Immediately within a week my daughter started having anxiety really bad. Her mood swings are painful to watch, her depression is very concerning to me. I ask her what's wrong and she doesn't even know, she says she hates herself. She has always had high self esteem and it's at an all time low right now. She says she feels trapped in her own body. She feels hopeless, she has bled for almost 3 months now, and she is always sad. I feel like I'm losing my daughter to this shot. She's almost to end of 3 months and it's gotten worse, I can't wait for it to be out of her system and see my daughter smile again:(
Ok where do I begin. I decided to get the depo because I have extreme vaginal bleeding when I'm on my period. I would soak a heavy flow pad with in hours which was making me anemic. So I decided against my better judgement to get it. Also, I had just delivered my child 10 months earlier ; when I delivered i had uncontrollable bleeding. I eventually got a blood transfusion. So I get the shot, no reaction from that alone. I started feeling really depressed in about a week and migraines got worse and more constant. This was in march when I got it . So the second month everything was fine , I was excited that I didn't get my period . The third month was when everything happen. I started bleeding with a heavy flow which was usual for me. The first week went by, second week, and the 3rd week I was feeling extremely weak and dizzy. I was still bleeding that heavy flow. I was extremely fustrated. Another 2 weeks went by when I decided to make a doctors appointment. My doctor was shocked by how much I was bleeding. He decided to a pelvic exam to see what's going on and my cervix was inflamed and I was bleeding a lot. He looks at me and says," you need to go to the hospital, because I'm
Got the shot 4/7/17 and these months have been horrible. I experienced most of the side effects and would much rather stick with the norethindrone pill. I would get super depressed and my SO and I would argue constantly, i would get irritated very easily, I would not be able to sleep at night, there would be times where i get extremely tired out of nowhere, and I have absolutely no sex drive. I wish I looked into the shot before getting it. I thought that it'd be great idea because I'd forget to take my pill sometimes. Never again. It felt as though it made me a whole different person.
I started Depo-Provera in January 2016, a year and a half ago. I am 17 years old, it has worked really well as a preventative but it has caused me terrible problems. I've had around 6 shots now, I was rather small in size when i started i weighed 106 lbs, it did make me gain weight and zillion stretch marks I'm weighing in at about 132 now. But during the first year I bled nonstop, the bleeding has just now slowed down, the clinic said it was because I was of smaller size it would take longer for my body to adjust to the injections, it was miserable. It has made so many changes to my body it's made me uncomfortable in my own skin. Not to mention the nearly unbearable cramps that I generally get a week before I'm due for a shot and a few weeks after, it consumes all of my energy. I would not recommend Depo, although it may not have the same effect on you as it has me, But I am definitely looking into other options. My body just can't handle the shot anymore. Hopefully it works out better for someone else, each to their own. Everyone is different. Hope this helps.
I have been on this shot for 6 months now and I just got my 3rd shot today, I am 15 years old and I get this shot mainly for my periods. I had really bad periods with heavy bleeding and very bad cramps. I researched and saw that birth control can help lighten up periods. I went to the doctor and she recommended the pill. The problem with that is it's extremely hard for me to take pills consistently. With that, I knew I couldn't take the birth control pill. The other option my doctor recommended is the depo shot. She told me that for some women, their periods completely stop over time. She also said that it wasn't recommended for younger women but I could try it. When I got my first shot, my periods stopped completely and I was super excited. I had read up on the side effects and ive gotten none of them. I was a little scared of the weight gain side effect because I am already a little overweight but actually it seemed that I lost weight right when I got on it. So far ive lost 20 pounds since on the shot. I guess it's different for some people. Overall, I love it and I would recommend trying it because it could have a positive effect on you.
I loved this so much, I had no side effects at first. I had been on it for six months and I started gaining a lot of weight. I gained 20 pounds in six months. my depression also got a lot worse but I pinned it on events recently occurring in my life. And then I noticed that I had zero sex drive. None at all. So after discussing this with my new more knowledgeable doctor she suggested progesterone only pills (considering I can't take hormonal). I've only had them for two days, so fingers crossed. But overall I loved depo. Except you know for the depression and weight gain
I was on Micogestin FE (a daily contraceptive pill) for about years before deciding to take the shot thinking that it would be easier now that I'm married and having sex more often, in case I forgot my pill, I'd be covered for three months with the shot. WELL. They said I might get some "irregular bleeding at first" but I didn't know that meant that I would bleed profusely 80 out of 90 days. They said there may be other side effects but not one of those mentioned was difficulty having sex. Or even putting a tampon in. As soon as I got the shot it became impossible for my husband and I to have sex, not even a finger, not even a small vibrator, it was literally impossible to do anything. It hurt everywhere. The inside of the vaginal walls, and the opening. I went to the GYNO and they were like "oh this is strange, I've never seen a case like this before, well IDK, lets hope it gets better?" So I didn't fit the profile for endometriosis, or something else, or something else, or cervical cancer, or whatever else they thought. They referred me to a physical therapist...for vaginas. I wasn't going to take the shot again and just go back to my birth control pill, and not even a wee
This shot was horrible I was an emotional Trainwreck for 3 months and also had my period for about 2.5 months. I had every symptom and it made my anxiety and depression worse I would highly suggest not getting this
Would recommend for no one to take this drug. Had I been warned of any side effects of this drug ,I would not have taken it. Depression , sadness , no energy , month long periods. I can't wait for this drug to get out of my system and I no longer trust my doctor.
I've only had one shot but I literally never want to do this again. I've had almost every one of the common side effects plus some. I already have serious depression and anxiety issues and this shot made me leave work an hour early because I was crying about a salad. I can't anymore.
I took the depo-provera for my very bad menstrual cycle for about 5 years on and off, and it worked very well for me. I had none of the side effect that other have had, I didn't have any noticeable side effect at all. I never had any withdraw symptoms while going off the shot either. I am switching over to another form of birth control because my doctor told me that if i take it for more than 2 years without taking a break it can cause your bones to thin. I would love to keep taking the Depo-Provera but i need something that is more long term.
My experience was great! I was on the depo shot for a year. I never had side effects and no period since the first shot. Unfortunately I did gain a ton of weight but it's preventable. After the first year my fiancé and I felt that we were ready for a baby so I got off the shot. Being said, every doctor i talked to said it would take close to around 2 or 3 years if not more to get pregnant. But 3 months off the depo and trying I was pregnant! I just had my son March of 2017. I am back on the depo and no side effects other than a little nausea the day of getting it nothing to severe.Really recommend the depo but everyone's body is different.
I could go on and on but it's all in the others - depression. No sex drive, hopelessness, weight gain....i wasn't even a human.....AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE
I don't recommend this shot! I took this shot once and hated it. I would have break through bleeding often. Literally 2 periods a month.. which limited the amount of time I could have sex with my spouse. I finally stopped the shot and it took nearly a year and half for it to get out of my system and I got pregnant. Not only did I find this shot to have horrible symptoms but it comprised my fertility for awhile when we were finally ready. I'll stick to the pill.
HORRIBLE. Ive been in the shot for 9 years. I had no interest in the pill. The only positive was thay after having my period for about a month straight I havent gotten it since. And the fact that I only have to get it every 3 months was nice. But the downfalls were that I gained a crazy amount of weight (and I workout almost every day), and my mood swings were horrible, after getting the shot in my thigh, lower backside, and arm the only place I could stand getting it was in my stomach. After getting it in my stomach for so long Ive begun to see muscle damage.. so that doesnt look pleasant. And my sex drive is down to nothing. That was the last straw that made me switch. The weight gain and no sex drive pushed me to change birth control.
I have used depo provera around 2 years i gained alot of weight and got depressed but what makes me realy upset is that i have not been using depo for more than a year and i still have not got my periots back and i still dont lose weight and i not able to know if i get pregnant or not cause my body is not working the way its suppost to wish i never used depo provera
I've been on the depo for almost 6 months now. The first three months of the shot I experienced horrible spotting for about 2.5 months since I didn't experience any other side effects I decided to get another shot. This time I experience horrible mood swings, heritability, depression, severe lower abdominal pain, headaches, weakness and fatigue, dizziness and anxiety. I have one month until this awful drug is out of my system. I haven't felt like myself in months and I have barely been able to eat and since getting my second shot I've had multiple anxiety attacks. I don't recommend this shot to anyone, it's dangerous. It depletes Vitamin B6 levels which cause some of these side effects.
My body did not react very well to the drop injection. I gained 30 pounds in the two years of taking the shot, and initially had a lot of problems with constant spotting while on the depo Injections. On my second year of having the injections, I began to feel depressed and emotionally unstable. I also lost a lot of hair and my hair was noticeably thinning. I was losing an excessive amount of hair everyday and even began balding a little, so that's the main reason I decided to discontinue the depo injection. I've been off the injection for a month and have lost 4 pounds already and my mind feels healthier. I'm happier and feel more emotionally stable. My side effects from discontinuing the shot include breast swelling, breast tenderness/pain, and bloating/spotting.
I'm on my second shot (and last one ever) I went on Depo because I was tired of taking the pill everyday(huge mistake). My hair is now really dry and falling out like crazy, Always so tired, even if I sleep in, my body is always weak and really sore, I'm lactating and just in general feel like a crazy person, constant irritability. I hadn't had any of these issues until my second shot. It sounds a lot like thyroid, but that's been tested and it's normal. I told my doctor all of these things and he doesn't believe it's the shot... I can't tell if he's lying or just a complete idiot.
This was honestly the worst year of my life being on this needle... I am 19 years old and I have gained more weight then I have ever been in my entire life I grew stretch marks all down my leg. It looks awful I wanna cry when I look at myself I'm stopping this needle in may. Wish I never started it, i get sooo moody over absolutely nothing I'll just cry, then be angry at everything, I get really bad headache and I always have a upset tummy, theirs no end to pain with this needle. Don't waste your time with this needle!! Please it's the worst thing I have ever done to my body I'm 19 and looks like I'm a tiger on my legs .. I can't even wear shorts... I'm use to weighting like 130/140 and I'm close to 200.... I'm very depressed about this...
With the onset of Perimenopause i went to my gyn after having menstruated for nine months straight. She started me on DEPO to stop the bleeding. The first shot lasted a year. The second shot lasted three weeks. I gained 50 lbs and am now being tested for diabetes. I believe this shot will be the death of me.
I used the shot as a form of birth control for 4 years. I had the shot every 3 months on my butt/hip area. The only side effect I had was that I didn't have a period for the entire 4 years I was on it, but I loved that! I stopped taking it because I read an article about it scaring people saying it causes infertility. I got off of it and am now pregnant... I'll be getting back on the Depo after the birth because it worked so perfectly! Highly recommend!
I have been on Depo for 8 years. Recently I have started getting night sweats, I am always tired despite having enough sleep. I feel like I am going to pass out all the time and have no energy at all. I have also fainted a few times recently. I can't function properly. Had all blood tests done and everything was fine I know Depo is the reason why I started feeling like this. I was an active healthy person before. Non smoker, regular exercises. Now I struggle to walk up the stairs. If only I knew what this is going to do to my body I would have never taken it in the first place. I was so happy not having period for 8 years, now I realised how much damage I have done to my body and only God knows how long will it take for my body to get back to normal. They should make you aware of side effects of this drug and that you shouldn't be taking it for more than 2 years at the time. Please avoid.
I thought this form of birth control would be good for me because I don't want to have kids anytime soon. I'm 25 and married l, and this is actually ruining my sex life. I am bleeding everyday since I've had the first shot (October 2016) and it is now March. I'm not happy with this form of birth control and I am wanting a change. I highly do NOT recommend this birth control.
I abSOULutely hate this form of birth control. It was my first and most likely my last try of birthcontrol. Im completely upset with the irregular bleeding or what they call "breakthrough bleeding". I started the shot in october 2016...& from that day on, i havent stopped bleeding for about 5 months now this march. It decreased my sex drive, made me emotional and depressed and is ruining my sex life. I feel super fatigued,weak, and im also anemic now.... i wouldn't recommend this to anyone and im so upset they offer this to anyone, Although,It is effective for no pregnancy. I had one dose (shot) and discontinued this right away. Now i will be bleeding for 5 more months or more according to depos time estimations. Completely upset and dissatisfied, i wish i Hadnt taken this...save yourself and dont take this form of bc.
Worst experience ever do not have ever I have had severe panic attacks ,anxiety ,heart palpitations,sweats ,migraines,numbness,cramps and no energy at all this is the worst drug should be banned cannot believe they offer this as a good formof contraception STAY AWAY I am now two years in and will not be getting any more i had a break for three weeks due to unexpected working away now twelve days in and feel very ill hope anyone reading this takes as a warning please please don't do it
Was 7 stone 9, gained 3 stone in 9 months of having this injection my body is now riddled with stretch marks. Skin seemed to worsen whilst on it, and I had absolutely no sex drive whilst on it whatsoever. Only plus was no period but the plus is minute compared to all the other horrific stuff the injection put me through. Good riddance!!!
OMG! This drug DEFINITELY protects me from getting pregnant, because my sex drive is null & I bleed everyday. I've been exercising & doing my best to eat healthier, but I'm not losing weight. It has to be bloat. My moods have gotten worse. My vision is blurry. Headaches come more often. When my bleeding finally stops after 12 days, my man & I have sex for a few minutes, then have to stop because I start bleeding again & it hurts now. It didn't hurt before. All this is making my depression worse. GOSH! Look into another form of birth control before taking this. My man is now seriously considering getting a vasectomy so we can resume our normal intimacy.
I was on the depo for six years and absolutely loved it, no side affects, no period, nothing, I had to go away for a while, 3 years without it, well since returning to the free world, i have gotten it again, twice in the last 6 months, my period stopped immediately, no depression, no weight gain, no pregnancies, nothing, I am in love with this form of birth control and would highly recommend it to everyone!!!
I started taking the depo 2 years ago 2014. It was amazing the first three months no period no cramps. After that three months I started having month long periods of no blood but brown paste. It was awful. I gained 30lbs and was constantly tired and depressed went up two new sizes in a few months which was extremely uncomfortable. I recently got off it Nov 11 2016 had a normal period in December then went two months without one. Now I'm suffering from black blood clots excruciating pain. I've gone to gyno and she knew nothing of it. Now I have an ultra sound scheduled to see what's going on. Super worried. I would never recommend this to anyone!
On January 24, 2017, I received the Depo shot because my doctor's office and insurance were giving each other the run-around about ordering the Mirena. I have had the Mirena before which is why I was going with that contraception. However, I needed a birth control asap which is how I ended up getting the Depo. My experience, not so good. Here I am February 20, 2017 and I am struggling to live basically. I am an avid weight lifter. My partner and I workout five times a week and eat healthy. With this Depo shot, I feel extremely fatigued all the time. Even after two naps and a full night's rest, constantly tired. If I eat any "bad food" soda, donuts, etc, I bloat twice as much (twice as fast) and it lasts for days. To shrink back to my normal weight and size, it takes several days even with exercise. On top of the tiredness and bloating, mood swings are happening as quick as switching on the light. Other than that, I haven't gained any weight but I am exercising consistently. My weight does juggle with an 8 lb increase/decrease. The only postive thing about the Depo shot is, it was easy to get, simple as a shot. Also, I have not gotten pregnant for the full month of solely bei
I started taking the Depo shot May 2015, Life was great no period! simple little shot, no worries of forgetting to take my pill everyday..It was until almost 2 years exactly 20 months (August 2016) of taking the super easy shot I started having severe symptoms including: Breast soreness, Severe headaches, Depression, Dizziness, Slurred speech, Blurred vision, Sensitive to light & sound, Pain behind and around my eyes, Confusion, Numbness in my face, Drowsiness, Anxious, Nausea, Hot flashes, ETC. The last dosage I received was Dec. 20, 2016 and am still experiencing severe conditions. I have an MRI scheduled for May 2017. (Since August 2016, I have seen my regular DR on several occasions, 6 different hospitals, including a CT scan & missed over 4 months of work) THIS DRUG IS SERIOUS AND HAS NOT BEEN MADE AWARE OF ENOUGH I WOULD ABSOLUTELY NEVER RECOMMEND THIS DRUG TO ANY ONE. I just pray for everyone else who has experienced side effects of this drug! This drug can lead to (IIH) IDIOPATHIC INTRACRANIAL HYPERTENSION which is a serious condition you may want to consider. I am so disappointed in Pfizer the company who makes this drug and I hope not one more person has to go through wha
I got my first injection in November of 2015 and for the first 9 months, it was a dream! One shot every 3 months, instead of worrying about taking a pill every day! But around September of 2016, I started experiencing severe bouts of depression, I was exhausted all the time, and my libido completely vanished. I found out my Vitamin-D levels plummeted, and I have had to take supplements to bring it back to normal. It has now been 6 months since my last injection, and I still have not had a period, I have terrible mood swings and night sweats, and my libido has still not returned. Luckily my boyfriend has been amazing through this process, but it has ruined our sex life and the guilt has done horrible things to my self-esteem. My original gynecologist did not warn me about any of these potential side-effects, and if I had known, I would have chosen a different contraceptive. Definitely do your own research, and my advice would be to avoid Depo!!!
I got on the Depo shot and loved it. No periods, no worrying, just get a shot every 3 months. I was on it for about 3 years, and decided to give my body a rest. After all, it puts your body in a state of being pregnant. When I got off the depo, I never started my period back. I went through horrible night sweats, mood swings, bloating, cramping, you name it. I went to my GYN and had a test run. She said I had already gone through menopause and was completely over it. So the shot through me in to Pre-Mature Menopause at the age of 35. Not good!
It was absolutely horrible. I have low vitamin D which leaves me with some body pain here and there but it was extremely enhanced with the depo. My body hurts non-stop. Also this made my hormones horribly imbalanced. I have now had my period 4 weeks after not having a period for one month. Sex is very uncomfortable, my natural lubrication had decreased immensely I have to use lube (KY waterbased jelly), it also has decreased my libido and my self esteem. It also gave me BV. So I will not be continuing this. I'll just stick to condoms.
I'm sharing my experience with depo provera because when you come off the depo provera shot it is the worst experience I have EVER experienced, and I would hate for anybody to go through this. I have been on the shot since I was 15 I got off of it when I was 21 August of 2016 6 years of using this birth control and when I was on it, it was the best thing ever. No period, no cramps, it was perfect. But In the long run it ruined my life. For about 5 months I had withdrawals from this horrible contraceptive. Nausea and vomiting, dry heaving, insomnia, bad cramps, period for a month straight, inconsistently bleeding, back pain, dizziness. I was in and out of the hospital so much and NO DOCTOR HAS ANY IDEA WHAT THIS DRUG IS DOING TO PEOPLE. It is the most uncontrolled experiment in the world. I have done ALOT of research on this birth control and if you are struggling like I did when I came off depo, I have a solution for getting your body back to health. The doctors didn't do anything for me so I had to do it for myself and IT WORKED. I take daily vitamins and it helped my body tremendously get back to healthy. Also I am still in the process of healing. So I plan on taking these vitami
When I had the first shot, I experienced a lot of the common side effects. Heavy bleeding, back pain, headaches, and much much more. However, I decided to stick with it even though I had those issues. These symptoms lasted for about 6 months. After that 6 months, I no longer had a period, nor was I bleeding. The back pain was completely gone and my acne started clearing up. I had my energy back and felt great. Every time I got the injection, I felt crappy the day of but then went back to normal. No severe depression after starting it. I had been on it for 2 years and decided to get off of it because of the weight that I had gained (the ONLY down side). My acne came back and it took 9 months to get my first period again (which my doctor had told me up to 1 year). The shots sting for just a second and my muscle is not achy like most IM injections. I would strongly recommend this for use for people who have a history of ovarian cysts. I had multiple ovarian cysts before getting on depo, and have not had one since I started. Prevented pregnancy as expected with light spotting a couple times a year. I am hoping to get back on it in the near future, as Xulane (transdermal) is not working
I love it. Surry some people have had such bad reactions on it. I was on the pill Yaz for three years. Around this time I started to get very severe migraine which would incapacitate. Many discussions with my GP finally put them down to the pill as they both stated at the same time. When we saw the correlation and we decided the injection was best. I'm pretty hopeless at medication. For this alone it been great. I have not had any migraines which have incapacitated me since switching. I've been in it for a year and a half. I no longer get my period and that's a small blessing as well. I find the injection very painful and my arm is tender for a week after. I would recommend this option to people that are not Havering any luck with the pills.
My only options were depo and an IUD since I cannot take estrogen, and the thought of an IUD initially freaked me out so I chose depo. Huge mistake. I started bleeding 5 days after getting the shot and did not stop until the EXACT day my dose expired 3 months later. I gained about 10lbs and was getting horrid cramps. The shot-every-3-months idea was very convenient but it just wasn't for it. The worst part was I was stuck with it for 3 months. I couldn't just stop taking a pill or get something removed. I switched to an IUD the day the depo expired and have loved it ever since. I'd NEVER recommend the shot to anybody. Also, my doc taking depo for a prolonged period of time (2+ years) can affect bone density, something to keep in mind.
Today marks 3 months exactly since I have started taking Depo-Provera. I can confidently say it has worked for me with no regrets. The side effect of this drug I am so HAPPY for is not having a period. Yes others might have pains but I am telling you I have no pains. MOST importantly I don't have to be paranoid about getting pregnant!! Try it you may never know.
I hate how everybody seems to post horrible stories about the Depo shot. It's quite significant and actually one of the most effective. I've been on Depo for almost a year, I have just recieved my 3rd shot yesterday. So far, I have read that women have experienced bleeding for weeks at a time after the 1st shot. Side note: that is normal! Your body us adjusting to the hormones, and quite frankly after the second shot, It's rare you will bleed. Also remember, don't read every horrible review and decide right away you don't want to do it. Your body is much different than anyone else on this. Yes, side effects are common, but none even closely relatable to "dying."
I got the shot a little over a month ago now and it was the worst decision I have ever made. I was bleeding for 14 days, I woke up in the middle of the night twice now with severe cramps to the point I had to go to the ER because I didn't know what the pain was, they ran a few tests and sent me home because everything came back normal. 10 mG percs didn't even help the pain! Do not get this shot! All I do is eat.. I have gained a lot of weight. Also very emotional, causing problems in my relationship
While on the Depo, I have experienced most of the side effects. I've only had 1 shot and will not have another, I'm extremely fatigued, the back pain is horrible, and the dizziness and anxiety doesn't help either. I would not recommend this drug!
I wanted so badly to like the Depo shot since I'm extremely forgetful about taking the pill, but after 6 months and 2 doses I had to quit. I've been prone to depression before but had never had it so severely as when I took the shot, along with mood swings. I had also been prone to acne before, and it's worse now than it's been in YEARS. I have cystic-like acne on my chin and cheeks and across my hairline now, when my face was almost clear before I went on the shot. With no change in my eating habits or activity, I've gained more than 30 pounds while on the depo shot. I'm always hungry and never feel full. Being on the shot also completely killed my sex drive.Now that the depo shot has run its course and I'm back on Trinessa,which I was on for 5 years before. I already feel much better after only a week or so, not back to my normal self but I'll get there hopefully. If you're prone to anything like depression or acne please do NOT take the depo shot! It's not worth it.
The ONLY positive thing about Depo that I can say is that it prevented pregnancy for the 3 months that I was on it. If I would have read the reviews before hand I would NOT have taken it. I did not follow up with a second shot of that Depo POISON. I took the shot on October 5th 2016 and it's now January 20th 2017. I HAVE BLED EVERY DAY SINCE I TOOK THE SHOT. Three months of bleeding and counting. I never feel clean because I'm always bleeding, I'm weak with no energy all of the time, I constantly feel bloated, my sex drive is gone, my motivation for every day life is GONE. It's just horrible. I never gained any weight, never had any food cravings until the END of the third month. I crave food 24/7. I never feel full when I eat. Not to mention it IS SO HARD TO LOSE WEIGHT NOW. I used to be able to lose weight so easy by just watching what I ate. Now I watch what I eat, workout every day, and cannot lose a single ounce. I am counting down the days for this poison to be out of my system! DO NOT GET THIS SHOT
I only took one dose of the Depo shot, about 15 months ago. I realized very quickly what a mistake I had made and therefore never took it again. When first assessing my BC options my doctor straight up lied to me and said "there are no side effects." What a lie that was! Having a history of depression, the shot triggered extreme mood swings and bouts of depression that disrupted much of my ability to function mentally. I did lose my period while on the shot. Conversely, I had a co-worker who was also on it and who experienced constant bleeding throughout the month. I additionally got acne (that I hadn't had since I was a teenager), experienced prehypertension high blood pressure (which I've never had before and have no family history of), and GAINED 30 POUNDS (and stretch marks along with that). It took about 9 months after the initial shot for me to get my period back, and around that same time the mood swings and acne stopped. I switched to a non-hormonal BC (Paragard), so slowly my weight has started to return to normal (with little/ no change in activity level or eating habits). At 15 months post-Depo, I've lost 20lb (over the course of 5 months without changing eating/ activit
I'm 19 I got my shot December 1st I been on the shot for a month, I had a weird brown color of bleeding then a night with bad cramps couldn't sleep then I woke up in the middle of the night with really bad cramps don't know if it supposed to do that, then woke up with pain all on my right side dont know if its from the shot or just sleeping on it but it hurt for two days now Its gone. But now my fingers and feet look swollen. I'm really scared and don't know what to do can someone help me Please.
After having years of terrible side effects from 2 different pill brands, I decided to give depot a go. My excruciating excessive black bleeding everyday stopped, so did the smell and the moody swings due to loss of sleep and being unable to gain weight. I took the depo for 3 years and absolutely swear by it after going through hell on the pills. I bled for about 4 months on and off but it went back to normal colour which was a relief so I didn't really care. Once the bleeding stopped I was so much happier due to reduced insomnia and depressive feelings, higher sex drive and just overal feeling healthier. I feel for women who have suffered on this protection, but please don't let them scare you if you have been through crud on the pill, as this tiny needle may be the answer you've been looking for. Trust your body.
I was on the shot for 2 years and experienced many side effects which is why I had to stop taking it. After a month of being on the shot I became depressed and eventually it would come and go. I experienced irregular periods and a lot of spotting the first year and in my second year my period went away entirely. I did lose a lot of hair but it didn't effect me because I have so much hair anyways. I didn't really gain an excessive amount of weight, when I started I was a junior in high school weighing about 80 lbs (I have a very high metabolism; no disorders) and by my senior year I weighed 103 lbs. I took this shot for contraceptive use and for weight gain because I struggled on my own to gain weight. My weight would fluctuate between 100 lbs to 105lbs now I'm about 103 it stays pretty consistent with me. I also experienced changes in my acne, I would have almost cystic like acne on my cheeks, chin, or jawline it was usually just one cyst like pimple at a time. Most of the time my skin would be fairly clear but when it came too close to needing my shot I would break out massively. I also experienced a lot of fatigue and tiredness. I had to nap everyday because I would be so extreme
Since the ripe age of 12 until now, I have always had extremely painful heavy periods. Debilitating to the point of missing school and work. I have tried everything to no avail. I got the Depo shot to help reduce my heavy painful periods and to give my body a chance to resolve my iron deficiency. Taking that shot last month was the worst mistake of my life. I have been on my period for 10 days. And I have missed work for three days. This shot does not help regulate your cycle, if anything it makes it worse. I have gained 10 pounds since I took the shot last month. I have gotten acne since I took the shot last month. I have been depressed since I took the shot last month. I have been in pain, severe pelvic pain since I took the shot last month. Not to mention the severe headaches that go along with it. So, If you are reading this please do not take the shot. It will ruin your life.
Taken shot for 18 years it's wonderful I'll never go off!
While my experience with Depo hasn't been as negative as apparently many others, it had enough negative side effects for me to decide to not get a second shot. I was on Junel 1/20 for nearly three years, but it was causing me frequent, horrifically painful ovarian cysts. Depo seemingly stopped this from happening (although it hasn't been long enough to judge for certain), but it instead gave me daily, horrifically painful migraines. It also made every inch of my skin break out like never before. Effective as a contraceptive, but very ineffective at making life bearable.
I switched from the pill to depo because I didn't like having to take a pill everyday, however after being on depo I had never been unhappier in my life. Each time the doctors said the symptoms would get better- but I swear they got worse. 10 pound Weight gain with no change in lifestyle (I run 4 miles, 6 days a week and follow a strict training diet), my skin went from having never a pimple to enlarged pores and terrible acne-even on my back, CONSTANT bleeding (going in after 6 months, they said it would get better but it got so much worse to where 4 days a week I was heavily spotting), and decreased sex drive. I honestly felt like I no longer knew/could trust my body. I started the pill again, and most of the bleeding cleared up within a month, but my skin is still atrocious. If I could do it again, I would just suck it up and take a pill daily instead of putting depo back in my body.
To anyone who is thinking about starting up shot, don't let the bad reviews deter you. Reading these 1-star reviews, I am baffled... I have taken the Depo shot for at least 2 years continuously now and have had no issues whatsoever. The part I enjoy the most is that my period has gone away entirely. It's been so long that I've even had spotting that sometimes I realize I forgot that periods are even a thing. I also never had an issue with gaining weight on the shot, however, I should say I have a very fast metabolism and it would take a lot for me to gain weight. Never any issues with depression, headaches, etc. This shot has been a real blessing.
I was on it for a couple years, it was alright at first.. stopped having periods which was somewhat nice and it does effectively work as birth control. However, I started gaining weight. I've always been pretty thin...I went from 115 lbs to 135 lbs in a few months. I had no sex drive at all (what's the point if even getting the shot then?) I always felt bloated, tired, and moody. It has plenty of other worse side effects if you do some research. Plus,the shots themselves suck. Go for an iud! I've had one for about 5 yrs that works wonderfully. I would never recommend this format of birth control to anybody. All I ever had and heard are terrible things.
Man at first I loved the depo shot. I was not told about any side effects, Hell, they might as well have put the shit on a pedestal. I had just started my period the day I got the shot and the shot stopped it completely. I felt great and had no bleeding through the 3 shots I received altogether. When a little time had passed after I was due for a shot(I was visiting family out of state) that is when my body started going through HELL! Maybe it is withdrawal or maybe the shot was just really good at hiding the havoc it was causing. Migraines are frequent and unbearable, it took me a year after my last shot to start having periods that are accompanied by bad cramps(never had a problem with painful cramps during periods before), my hair has been falling out more than before, I get very dizzy, have a decreased appetite, lost weight(gallbladder surgery could have played a part, my gallbladder had gotten dangerously bad), I get lower back pain, weakness in my legs, arms, and back, constipation, acne problems which I never had before, breast tenderness, and I have literally turned into a demon possessed nightmare and I'm pretty sure I'm anemic, I'm always cold. These problems have not gon
After a few weeks i have taken depo, bleeding started, It has been 8 months since i've taken the first dose, I have been bleeding for 6 months all together only because I went to my gp and got other drugs to stop the bleeding which it starts again once i stop taking those pills. Also I have heard from all the side effects they tell you, apparently it makes your bone weak as well. I have got a surgery to clean my uterus tp get rid of all the blood inside of me, even tho depo should been out of my system by now, i am still bleeding, can't have normal sex life, constant cramps, heavy flow, feeling weak and dizzy sometimes because im losing blood the second I am writting this review. Do not trust GP, go to Gyno, they will tell you how bad this is since they have to deal with this "side effect" every day. I have lost countless money to deal with problem, not to mention all the cost of a year supply of tampons within 6 months. I do not know then this is going to stop, soon I will be anemic which will cost me more medical bills. even tho this works for you, there are long term side effects will cost your health someday. I do not want anyone has to go through the same I did, find other t
I have had terrible side affects. I started getting extreme migraines, body aches, and joint pains. Oh, and let's not forget lower back pains, I couldn't sit for too long. Come to find out, my mother had been on it too in the past and she had the same sides affects as I did. It's not for me. Some people don't experience many side affects, I just happened to be one of those who experience them all.
I have been on depo for 3 years then all of a sudden in dizzy all the time always feeling depressed. I mean I just don't feel the same anymore. So I'm done with it and hopefully I start to feel normal again after its out my system...ppp
Worst decision. Have experienced every side effect listed. Highly do not recommend to anyone.
I have been on the depo shot for over ten years now. I am 34 years old and am about to get off the shot to start a family. I have never had any issues with the shot. I have enjoyed very much not having a period for these past 10 years plus. I will say, I did bleed for the first month or so, but I believe that is natural when you are changing your bodies chemical make-up. I have had other friends take the depo as well and have enjoyed it more than any other birth control. Its not for everyone, but in my experience it worked out perfectly for me. I take my extra calcium and still exercise like I did before. I have gained weight, but I believe that is just do to me getting older and busy!

My doctor was worried about my irregular menstrual cycles and extremely heavy bleeding. I had become anemic and iron deficient with very low energies and stomach cramps that were so bad I ended up getting diarhhea. she wanted to try the depo shot to stop the period for a short time to easy my pain and help replenish. I told her that I don't react well with hormones and that my sister had tried the deop shot and ended up bleeding for months. she pushed me further and I gave it a try. Since getting it my hair is falling out, my nails have oddly become brittle, I can't control my emotions (mostly rage and sadness), and to top it off I've been bleeding for a month. From other reviews, it looks like these are very common side effects that my doctor assured were rare, and my recovery from this bad reaction will require more hormonal treatements. I've had to cancel my ultrasound because of the bleeding, so until we get it back under control I won't be able to answer the huge looming question "Is it ovarian cancer?". Don't be fooled. If you are in the unlucky 50% of us who react poorly to this drug, the side effect are life ruiners. You won't get pragnent - there will be no sex.
Im 41 years old and have been on the depo for nearly 4 years now. I was 6 months into a new relationship when I decided to take it as the remaining option was a hysterectomy (which I really didn't want and had cancelled 2 in previous years) For over 25 years my endometriosis had ruled my life with pains that I would only describe as worse than giving birth and bleeding that would last 3 weeks a month. I wasn't going to let my endometriosis ruin my relationship. At first, I was a absolutely shell shocked as it stopped my bleeding almost immediately (quite a bit of spotting, but nothing like before) pains were far and in between and I felt on top of the world! However, because I've always been such a positive person I kept making excuses for the side effects as I didn't want to accept that it was no good for me. 6 months ago I went to my GP to complain about a few little things about the depo injection I had been taking. He wasn't convinced that it was so he did some blood tests which when they came back he said I was pre menopausal and that I would have to stop it. He referred me to hospital... to cut a long story, nothing to do with menopause, my estrogen was dangerously high, due
Due to blood pressure, I had to go off birth control pills after being on them for many, many years. I figured a shot every couple months seemed like a pretty easy and quick birth control method. And, it is. Unfortunately, I was not smart enough to research fully the side effects. If I knew then what I know now, I would have NEVER taken this drug! I went from being fairly active, eating typically whatever I wanted, fit, and healthy to overweight, tired, sore, eczema flares and acne like I never experience - even as a teenager! I gained about 30 pounds in the span of 3-4 months with absolutely no changes on my eating or exercise habits! Even with dieting and more exercise the pounds have refused to budge! I only took two shots and called it quits, but the side effects have lingered. I would never recommend this to anyone! Do your own research and ask a lot of questions. I sure wish I had.
I only had 2 depo shots and I seriosuly do not recommend it. After the first shot I bled for 3 months straight and I started feeling a sharp pain on my hip which my doc said had nothing to do with the depo shot but I'm convinced it was. My sex drive was completely gone and I didn't want to have sex anyways with all the bleeding. My relationship took a hit from that. After the second shot I felt dizzy frequently and I would get more headaches than usual. My depression and anxiety definitely worsened but wasn't something I couldn't live with. It's been about a month since I was supposed to get my last shot and I've had bad dizzy spells and headaches almost every day, my hair thinned out so bad I had to cut it down to a bob, and I've been spotting for the last 3 months. I've been itchy frequently too which I'm assuming is from the drying out. I feel all around sick all the time nowadays. Don't do this to yourself. The odds of being one of the women with no side effects is not worth the risk.
I started taking depo for birth control, but was also borderline overweight and struggling with depression, so I thought that if this medicine could help me with all of those things, then why not? My birth control history included various types of pills in high school (that I eventually stopped taking altogether because I wasn't even sexually active), and lots of OTC contraceptive methods. Once I got into a serious relationship in college, I felt bad that the poor guy was spending so much money on all those condoms, and decided that it was time for a more permanent method. Let me begin by saying that the doctor that recommended and administered this drug PROMISED me that I would not gain any weight. *Audience laughter* She said that she used it and it was perfect for her, so it would be perfect for me. Perfect for her, a 5'1 100lb woman of Indian descent in her 40s, therefore perfect for me, a 5'6 170lb 20 year old college student of German descent? It seemed as illogical then as it does now, but I was just a lowly nutrition major, and I thought I should listen to the woman with two PhDs. I got my first shot and was thrilled when she told me that it would be effective immediate
After years of being on the contraceptive pill I thought i'd give the depo shot a go.. Which I regret so much! The first month i had no side effects but I noticed things slowly creeping on. I started getting headaches, fatigue and my ibs flared up. The shot also effected my anxiety and it started to control my life. I go off sex now and again and also the brown mucky discharge i get every month is a right pain. Because my ibs has flared up it's also given me piles and stomach cramps from time to time which is also down to the depo shot, as many others have stated. Im due my 3rd injection next month which im definitely not having. Can't wait to come off it! I know our bodies are all different so only you can see for yourself but i really wouldn't recommend it.
The reason was so that I wouldn't worry about my periods. I got lip paralysis ( numbing and tingling) which my obgyn, nurse and GP said wasn't a result of this shot. Many site state a side effect is numbness and tingling. The nurse printed off the article for my doctor. She havee a steroid shot. 2 hours after getting the shot my numbing and tingling went away (I'd been dealing with this for about 1 week). I followed up with a prednisone pack. One benefit I've experienced is my hair has stopped falling out. I have fine hair and handfuls would come out and now that doesn't happen. I've tried finding information on this but I cannot.
I took the shot for birth control and I regret it 100%. I would NOT recommend this shot for anyone. I had never experienced depression before but this shot sent me straight into a hole of uncontrollable sadness. After a month of being on the shot and feeling low motivation, not eating, and constant sadness I went back to my doctor who said that depression is on of the most common side effects from this shot. Really wish I would have done my research before... Sure, taking a shot one every 3 months is better than remembering to take a pill every day but the side effects are NOT worth it. To counter act the depression my mom and I researched vitamins that help with depression. I took a handful of vitamins but the ones I remember taking are fish oil and SAM-E. Since I've take the Depo-Provera shot (4 years ago), I feel as if my "depression" is easily trigger. Long story short this shot ruined my state of mind and I don't recommend it for anyone. Look into IUD's if your thinking about birth control.
Not only does it totally screw with your emotional state, it eats the calcium in your bones, you gain weight like crazy and is meant for 90lbs girls for a short time. You aren't supposed to be on it long term. I was on it for many years before I was even told this. Now my teeth are broken and full of cavities, and feel crappy all the time. I feel weak and most definitely not my normal self. I would never recommend it to anyone!
I took Depo- Provera for 6 months for birth control. The first three months I was an absolute mess. I cried all the time, was completely depressed and acted nothing like myself. I took the second shot because I was told that the first three months were usually hard and the second shot even you out. It was hard to believe it could happen but it was significantly worse. I was borderline suicidal and couldn't recognize the person I had become. All symptoms disappeared 5 months after the second shot. I have since found that I am extremely sensitive to hormone therapy. However, in the years since I have only met a couple of people that have anything positive to relate about it. At least with the pill or iud you can stop or remove. You are stuck riding out this monster to the bitter end.

i used to weigh 120 pounds before gettin onto this shot. i've been taking it for almost a year and I now weigh 160 pounds
I've been taking this for just over a year and I would recommend it to people who have trouble with the pill etc. I spotted for the first few months but don't bleed at all now. I experience a migraine for the first few days of each shot but nothing I can't handle. If you worry condoms aren't enough, I would recommend this.
Depo-Provera caused me to bleed consistently. I bleed for 2 months straight after my 2nd shot. It was honestly the worst ever. I would highly recommend the pill because you can control your menstrual cycles and it's effective as well.
Easy, and convenient. Break-through bleeding is annoying but it helps to take 800mg of ibuprofen to stop the bleeding. Haven't had any problems besides some minor acne that went away within the first 2 weeks.
I LOVE my Depo. Seriously. I've been on it for approximately a year and while there were some hormonal side effects at first, those appear to have leveled out. My libido is just fine(however, it's always been high and when I am due for another shot it seems to skyrocket), I have not gained or lost any significant weight unless I eat more or less, it caused some spotting for the first few months that was a bit of a nuisance, and the spotting comes back for the first few weeks after I get a new shot, but it is easy to manage and not heavy at all. I have not had an actual period since getting my first shot, which is a blessing. In the past a period for me meant days of vomiting, blacking out, and curling up in a ball from the pain every month. I tried the pill first but some weird stuff happened with my vision so Depo was the next option. If you have annoying but tolerable side effects for the first dose or so, in my experience it was worth it to stick it out. A few weeks of spotting every few months is a price I'll gladly pay for being period and pain-free
depo -provera i used to have to alot when i didnt have children it was fine !!!.. now i have two children it does not work for me i just had 1 shot and was mean to get another one this week which am not i have had bad mood swings feel irritable my hormones are over the place am breastfeeding aswell so am been feel extra tired ... i personally think for me the implants are a no for me ill stick to the pill .. also i dont like how you get symptons that your pregant and ive took loads of test am am not horrible 3 months for me
I am incredibly lucky to have found a birth control that doesn't cause any major side effects for me. It took a while to get my body adjusted to it, (I remember my body having a sort of shock at first) but since then my quality of life has improved tenfold. No PMS, no moods swings, no periods, no cramps! All of which was a major problem for me as a teenager. I was absolutely miserable and I missed a lot of school because of it. But now I can focus on what's important in life and not sweat the little stuff. I have been on Depo almost 4 years. Vitamins are a must if you are going to use Depo (calcium).
No menstrual cycle. I love it.
I absolutely love it. It has made my periods disappear , I will get my period about 1 week before I'm due for the next shot. I haven't had any weight gain or loss. Although I do get very hungry. It has done its job and it has done it very well! Very happy with this method !
Been on depo almost 3 yrs and have had no problems whatsoever. Bled for about 6 months straight after my first shot. Other than that it is great at doing what it says, preventing pregnancy.
I really haven't had any issues while on depo. I started the shot 3 years ago, I decided it was my best option for birth control and I haven't had any issues!
Just awful. I was nauseated all the time to the point of not being able to eat. Bled for almost two weeks straight. This works well as birth control but the side effects are honestly too much to deal with and I will not be getting this again.
I really like the Depo Shot other than the weight gain/hunger it has caused. I went from 130 lbs to almost 160 lbs within a year. When I eat a meal im back hungry within a hour or two. Thats way too much eating that i did not want to make time for! I must say though that i do not experience bleeding unless its gettin close to my shot which is very seldom. I've noticed that some people experience is the exact opposite of another person so i guess we all just have to pray & ask the true God for help with making a bc decision thats best for us. Good luck everyone!
Great for birth control if you are not good with remembering pills on a set schedule & that is it. However I found out the hard way what having low estrogen will do to your body. I suffered terrible migraines, nausea, absolutely no sex drive or energy, and extreme nervousness. Luckily I picked up on the symptoms right away and will NOT be getting another shot. I had to be put on another form of BC to STOP the symptoms the depo has been giving me. I wouldn't recommend this form of BC to anyone.
Awful, took three doses and bleed over the course of nine months to the point where I became anemic. Also became depressed and lost over thirty pounds. My hair thinned and I ruined a lot of undies.
Awful. Awful side effects.
I got the depo shot for the first time a couple weeks ago and I was super emotional the first week now I am short of breathe easily, nauseous all the time, and get headaches a lot too.
I used this shot 3 times, totaling a 9 month period. I started using this bc I'm terrible at taking pills on a daily basis and the Nuva Ring was highly uncomfortable. The bad most certainly weighs out the good. I had terrible cramps before I was on birth control. To the point I couldn't function. When I started depo i bled for a month straight but then "bam", no period or cramps for the rest of the time. That's the ONLY positive in my experience. So, I started experiencing depression (third shot) and then twice I got really dizzy while I was driving and had to pull over. One time I was on a bridge and it was the scariest experience of my life. So anyways I started to have extreme anxiety while driving, in a vehicle or in a crowded area. I wasn't scared of anything in particular but I would have a panic attack quite frequently. Now I'm the type of person that doesn't believe in pills to fix something mental. The anxiety attacks were so bad I would cry right afterwards and feel super tired. I decided to do research on the depo and after reviewing hundreds of negative reviews, I stopped taking it... And guess what? I haven't had the shot in 4 months and I have no signs of depression.
I've been on depo vera for 3 years and I love it. There was a little weight gain in the beginning and my period was random but now I don't get a period, I haven't had any accidental pregnancy, I believe the last two weeks of the 3 months I get a little more emotional/ hormonal, but overall I love the depo vera. It's very easily administered I walk in and out of the doctors office.
I just got the shot maybe a month ago. I absolutely hate it. I have major headaches and I'm sick to my stomach a lot. And its just crazy!
I have been bleeding for 3 months straight. I do not recommend!!
Experienced all side effects. Been on it for 4years and just decided not to again. Drs sent me for bone scan, weakened bone density. Since depo been diagnosed with 16 different allergies, (grass,trees,mold,dust, gluten, few foods, few animals, sunburn. All of which i never had an issue wi tj my whole life. ! Experienced very bad itching, redness, swelling, hives welts, rashes etc. Still dealing with my skin issues and allergys everyday even after depo!
My periods lasted much longer and were heavier than usual. I also spotted for the entire 3 months minus a few weeks. I did notice some acne (I'm 47 and never had issues). My PMS, which was difficult to tell when spotting ended and period began) was horrible with regards to my emotions. When I finally did stop bleeding, any intercourse resulted in brown blood and clots on my partner's penis and sex usually jumpstarted the bleeding. Exactly what I didn't want since it was the beginning of a new relationship. I will not be getting a second shot when the 3 months are up, which is in a few weeks.
It has been almost a month sense my first shot and I hate it!!! My face has broken all out and I never used to get acne. Even worse then that is the extream pain I feel in all of my joints. I am so tired all the time and have been bleeding for 2 weeks. I would recommend doing your due dilligance on this drug before taking it. Its just not worth all the horrible side effects.
I'm nearing the end of the 3 months from my first shot have had consistent head aches and migraines my period lasted for 4 weeks heavy and now that it's finally over I'm as dry as a desert.
I've been on depo for almost 2 years now. Personally, I love it. I did experience bleeding that lasted for a couple of weeks right after my first shot. The bleeding was light, but pretty constant during that time. I do experience spotting at the end of the 3month depo cycle but it's extremely light. The spotting stops as soon as I get the next shot. I don't get a regular period since starting depo. I do notice that I am a little moodier than normal sometimes (not constantly, just 1 or 2 days out of the month). I am a little concerned about the long term effects, but I will continue to stay on it as long as the doctor feels that it is safe.
This birth control method is TERRIBLE!!! I find myself in a bad mood all the time! I get upset easily and very emotional! I'm ALWAYS tired as well! NO energy, even when I've had plenty of sleep! I've defiantly noticed a huge difference since I started this drug 9 months ago! Look for other options if at all possible!!!!
I have been on depo for around 5 years. I love it. I will never use anything else. I have no symptoms. I did in the beginning but its worth it in the end because I have none. Your body needs to adjust to this. I would give it at least a year before you decide to go off of it. Its so conveniant and easy to use this. I go to the clinic and they do the injection there. The only thing I wish is that you could do the injection yourself but its not recommended because its muscular injection. I dont have time to remember pills or worry all the time.
DO NOT GET THIS SHOT!!!! MY HAIR FELL OUT!! extremely toxic and hard on your body, i am otherwise healthy, but have been on this for a year and my doctor just now put it together that it is what has caused my hair to thin to the point of bald spots, tons of nausea, anxiety, weight loss, debilitating headaches, fatigue.. I seriously was convinced I had cancer and was dying. I cannot wait for this shit to be out of my system. Don't be tempted by the convenience- it is not worth it!!!
I got my first shot when I was 17 and at the end of May. My doctor told me the shot would last three months so by August I would have to get another. The reason why I decided to get the shot was because a cyst was found on my ovary which caused seriously painful periods. So painful I couldn't function for that whole first day of sever cramping. I took the shot because I'm terrible at remembering pills and my schedule always changes. However, the shot was a terrible idea. Even though I experienced few symptoms, the ones I did were terrible. The doctor warned me about weight gain, clots, and bone loss (none I had problems with) but he didn't say anything about periods lasting TWO WEEKS! It was terrible. Even after the three months I continued to bleed. Do not take this shot.
Where to start...I'm angry all the time and for things I normally wouldn't be upset over. I'm constantly moody and EXTREMELY tired. I could sleep all day and then all night - no problem! Also, I've been bleeding since I got the shot... three weeks ago!!! Tons of weight gain even though I'm a low carb dieter. I'm so bloated and water-logged all the time. I'm constantly uncomfortable and feel so awful. Do not take this shot.
I chose depo when I was 17. I am now 28. I have gained a lot of weight. I do not have periods. No other symptoms besides weight gain. Got off of depo for 2 years, got pregnant with my son and I do have to say even when I was off of it I only has a few periods, I was shocked to get pregnant so fast. When my son was born I only bled for one day... he's 4 now and I have been on it again For the past 4 years and I did notice now it burns when I get a shot at the injection site but that's it. My body is tough, and I'm a bigger gal, I have two sisters who can't take depo both of them bleed for weeks. I guess I am just lucky enough, thank god for that Becuase I love depo. I drink lots of milk for calcium and take multivitamins, and use anything for sensitive skin such as soap, detergent, lotion to avoid such side effects.
Had daughter may 2015 got the shot before I left the hospital once after that been bleeding ever since its now September 2016 yes still bleeding
I was prescribed the pill for three years and experienced migraines with aura. Only a few years ago did I find out that Estrogen was likely a high contributing factor. Since taking the shot, I have only experienced one migraine and it was shortly following a gap in my prescription. My only side affect has been spotting. This works great for me and could be a good choice for other migraine sufferers. However, I do know some people have bad side effects.
I only got this shot because I was desperate to get back on birth control and it was free with my insurance. It has been two months now and I have been through many mood swings and even suicidal at times. I am depressed, angry, and anxious all the time. I have not stopped bleeding since I got the shot and the breakthrough bleeding caused a pH imbalance which in turn caused bacterial vaginosis. That required more time, money, and energy to go see the doctor and take antiobiotics which are tough on the body. In addition to that I am now buying and taking expensive probiotics to avoid getting another case of bacterial vaginosis. Please, take heed in my warning: DO NOT GET THIS SHOT!
I've had this injection for just over 2 months (23 more days to go) and I've hated every moment of it. It makes me extremely moody, especially with my family and my boyfriend, I constantly find myself crying for no reason, I feel very depressed and unhappy all the time, where usually I'm actually quite positive. This injection has been horrible for me, from having 3 week long periods, i strongly would not suggest anyone that is thinking of getting this injection, however I've read that by taking the pill, it may be a possibility to see how your body acts with the contraception. My boyfriend and I both believe it was not worth it. From feeling so low, it feels like I couldn't even pick myself back up and before I researched into this, I wasn't sure why it was happening. It is a horrible feeling and I believe there are other options that could be tried rather than this.
I got this shot when i was in high school and was on it for quite some time never really experienced any effects. I believe i did gain weight now that i look back. after high school I quit getting the shot and got back down to my normal weight, then i ended up pregnant. after my son i got back on the shot and have experienced and noticed more side effects like weight gain, NO SEX DRIVE, i have headaches ALL the time, and acne. Will be discontinuing this shot.
The depo shot has been overall a good experience for me! During the first shot, I had two periods (within the three month) but they also lasted longer. It was lighter the first week and then I spotted for two whole weeks. Wasn't that big of a deal for me. The biggest change I've noticed is how I am more emotional. I usually don't cry over anything at all but this will make me cry at seeing a dog walking on the side of the road or even a video on Facebook. It's just completely changed how sensitive I am. It has done its job of preventing pregnancy though which is why I got it. To me the benefits of not being pregnant outweigh the other side effects I've experienced.
Lots of weight gain
I was nieve to birth control and chose Depo as i thought it was convenient and i didnt have to have something inserted into my body. I was warned of weight gain so in anticipation of this i started eating healthy & attending the gym for a high cardio work out 6 days a week. After 1 week of injection i noticed that i was constantly emotional, negative and angry. I would find myself screaming at loved ones for something id normally laugh at. If i didnt agree with someone at work, they would definitely know about it. At this time i also realised how hungry i constantly felt and althought i was eating healthy & only opting for fruit or veges for snacks, performing high intensity cardio 6 days a week i found after 3 weeks i had put on 3kgs. My sex drive is nonexistent & i find myself pretending to enjoy it but all i want to do is sleep. I have never slept as much as i have been but still wake feeling fatigued. I get my period for 2 weeks at a time & i bloat and retain fluid so much that i struggle to fit my clothes during these 2 weeks. Also my self-esteem is so low, eventhough i have always been a positive & confident person. I got this injection due to pure laz
I have been getting this shot since in was 16 yrs old. I am 34 yrs old now and have 3 kids not all born from me. I am very scared to get off it but i read up on some of my symptoms and it turns out all my symptoms are from this shot. I know i need to get off this. I have endometriosis and i dont see how the shot helps. I had horrible periods before this shot and cramping was awful. My period wouldnt come for months and when it did it wouldnt leave for weeks before i got the shot. I would like to know what everyone else uses besides the depo. I can not deal with the bleeding for weeks at a time
Horrible i wouldn't want anyone to take this
This shot really affected my body :(. I've gotten 3 shots and have gained about 30 pounds (I didn't realize it was the shot at first) I've gotten really bad stretch marks all over my thighs and stomach and my sex drive is gone. This shot has taken away a lot of my self confidence and ruined my body image. I don't recommend it.
To start with, I love everything about this birth control method. The pills were going to be too hard for me to keep up with and I didn't want my thing in the arms. The first shot, I spotted for three weeks. The second shot, I spotted for around two weeks. The third shot, I spotted for less than a week. After that, I had no period or spotting. I love the depo shot, a little concerned about long term effects because my anatomy teacher said it may cause osteoporosis while my gynecologist denied that. HOWEVER, the weight gain was ridiculous. I literally gained over 30 pounds. Now I'm considering getting off of it because of the weight gain.
Five days after my first shot, my nightmare began. I began a low-grade fever that still has not stopped over 3 months now. Doctor after doctor, I was told it was an auto-immune disease Hashimoto's... but seeing the Endocrinologist, he said it wasn't. I don't even know what to believe in anymore. I do know toward the end of the first 3 months I WAS feeling better. The fatigue was gone. The chills and sensitivity to cold were gone. The fever was slacking up some. Then I took my 2nd shot.. again.. a few days later.. BAM everything came flooding back. It felt like my blood was boiling I was so hot... hot flashes, sweating, clammy.. yet my temp was like 95.9. (which yes, is in indicative of a thyroid issue, but as my endo said, I don't have one) I'm so lost and confused. Has anyone out there ever had a similar issue? An issue with the fever? It's been over 3 months and the joint pain has begun. I get up in the mornings and walk like a little old lady, because of my body pain. I've never been so moody in my life, never yelled at my pets the way I do, never so b'tchy like I am now.The depression was giving me suicidal thoughts but I knew I didn't want to be hospitalized because I'd be stu
So I was on depo for a little over two years. At first, I experienced the spotting, the dizziness and the cramping. I also retained water bad and gained around 30lbs but I really loved it. I had not gotten one ovarian cyst since I had started it (had many painful ones prior), it completely eliminated my period after the spotting, I think I had about 20 days out of the years I had been on it that I had cramping and it wasn't bad. My periods used to be so bad that I would vomit. Not with depo. It's a shame with the bone density side effects otherwise I'd be on it longer. Haven't had a shot in 6 months and still no period (which my gyn said was normal) and I feel great. A few mood swings since but it's my body readjusting. If your gyn is ok with it, I would suggest to try to stick it through the first few months if you get the common side effects (spotting, cramping, etc). I got dizziness the day that I got the shot only after my body got used to the depo. Totally worth it for me.
I am so sick from this drug that can't even function in my day to day activities! I'd rather be pregnant than deal with dizziness or long periods. I'm awake all night and barely sleep five hours a day. Frequent headaches, cramps, long periods, nausea, indigestion, dizziness! Abstinence is best lol
Well I took deop when I was around 16 and got off of it within a year because I didn't need it anymore. I remember having bad headaches and when it was time for my period it was a long week of bloody discharge and then almost a 2 week period every three months. Now I'm 19 and I have more symptoms my breast have shrank I used to be a D but now I'm a C, I have horrible headaches and joint pain to the point of crying and I have no sex drive because of the joint pain. I also feel some depression (not to the point of killing myself) and just feel lonely sometimes but I'm noticing it more now than usual. I don't plan on going back for my 3rd shot if things don't change. It is very easy to be able to get the depo and also very effective but I don't recommend it
the first time i took depo 6 yrs ago i had a bad reaction. gained some weight and spotted for 3 months staright. stopped it after 2nd shot. started the depo again last month. havent spotted yet, no period yet, little weight gain. i guess every person is different and with me, i guess my age changed my symptoms too. you have to talk w your dr ab options and getting off of it if it doesnt work out.
I have been on the Depo for a little over a month now. Positive: No pregnancy. No period. Mood stabilized. Acne is clearing up nicely. Appetite is hit or miss. Extremely convenient. Negatives: BREAST SIZE DECREASED Tenderness for a few days at injection site (Mine was inserted near my stomach) I've experienced no weight gain or loss so far on this birth control. My weight is the same as when I started. I really miss my chest though. I lost an entire cup size within a week of the shot even though my band size stayed the same. My chest is smaller, less full and feels cold. I hope this is only temporary. I was comfortable with my body and would like to have it back to normal. Please consider this possibility when deciding to take this medication. I will not be continuing this birth control although it did have a lot of benefits. I hope I don't sound vain. It just feels like I'm in someone else's body.
I decided to take depo because it was easy to remember a shot every three months, I wish I knew what I was getting into. After two of my shots I started to get sever cramping that would almost knock me off my feet. I also experienced extreme hair loss, I had hair falling out in gobs. I gained 30 pounds on the shot in 6 months!! That was the last straw!. And to top it off I was on the shot a total of 2 years, and I have been off any form of birth control sence then, and my cycles are still messed up. Please I beg you DO not take this.
I've had no serious problems. I haven't gained weight, my doctor said the reason I would gain wait was because it might increase my appetite. So when ever I get hungry I just eat veggies, so I think the wait thing is almost up to the person (in my experience at least). I haven't gotten my period yet which is cool. I haven't gotten pregnant which is also cool. I got acne which was new, but I started using treatments and it went away. It might mess with my moods but I don't notice it too much.
I hate this BC. Never in my life again will I take it no matter what. Since I have been on it I have been VERY moody, depressed, loss of appetite, no sex drive, no sleep etc. Ugh!
I had been on the pill for years with no issues, but when I got a new job with a hectic work schedule keeping up with pills became a challenge. I switched to the depo shot after the doctor recommended it for worry-free birth control. At first I loved not having to take a pill every day! But then two weeks in to my first dosage I began spotting and it hasn't stopped since and I am due for a second injection. I wanted to like this so badly but I might have to switch to the pill again because spotting for three months straight is emotionally draining when you are trying to have a normal sex life. I know everyone reacts differently, but this was the worst decision I have made. Wish I would have done more research before making the decision.
worst 2 months of my life dizziness anxiety panic attacks migraine can't eat can't sleep so depressed and never was before I started depo I thought I was having a nervous breakdown at one point my gp is sick looking at me have been to a+e can't wait to get it out of my system
I really love not having to take a pill every morning, that was the main reason to switch to depo. I do experience major mood swings the first 2-3 days after receiving the shot, but it is tolerable. I have not experienced ant depression or anxiety from the shot so I cannot relate to that. I have gained around 15-20 pounds but I know I would be able to lose them if I really tried. I love not getting a period every month! a little spitting at the end of the 3 months is completely fine with me! would recommend to any forgetful teenager who wants to lessen her chance of getting pregnant.
I personally love this depo shot, it definitely worked with not getting prego, at the beging of the first 3months I did have long periods but after that I haven't got any yet, I'm currently on my next 3month shot and I mean yes I recently in the shower saw a lot of hair but it'll grow back I have lots of it, I been a little annoyed but other than that I have server depression and anixiety disorder and honestly the depo has helped a lot, I definitely recommend it.
This drug is a nightmare. Please, please, please...do not take this route of birth control. My depression was under control when I took Depo the first time (8 months straight) and I gave it a break for a year. It was only until recently that I took it again and things went downhill quickly. I now have severe depression and anxiety, I've developed horrible somatic delusions (hypochondria) and I feel miserable all the time. I can't eat or sleep well because I'm so anxious and depressed. I'm nauseous numerous times throughout the day and I have an overwhelming urge to cry when the smallest things bother me. Worst of all, I have NO desire to do anything sexual with my partner, and even when we do get around to doing anything of the sort, it doesn't last long due to vaginal dryness and disinterest in anything sexual in general. Depo has ruined my life as of lately, and I'm now currently seeking professional help to stabilize my mental health. Whatever you do, steer clear of Devil-Provera.
This shot is complete garbage. I got my first shot at the end of January 2016, didn't notice any change until a month later (terrible shift in mood) but I also had stuff going on in my personal life and I didn't think anything of it. Few months down the road and I was overdue for my next shot. I got another shot at the end of June 2016 and about a month later (present day) I feel HORRIBLE!! I have panic attacks frequently, cannot sleep no matter what I try, can barely eat because I'm so sick to my stomach with depression and anxiety. All my friends have noticed a drastic change in my mood and are legitimately very concerned for me. I sit at my desk at work and sob at least once or twice a day. (Today it was three times) I cry when I'm at home at the littlest things and get mad and lash out very easily. The only good thing is that my abnormal bleeding has stopped all together but I would 100% rather deal with periods than feel like this. I understand that everyone is different but please educate yourself before taking this.
My doctor recommended Depo-Provera to help me with extreme menstrual bleeding and symptoms. I have not reacted well with other birth controls, but she ensured me this would be a great option to try. If your body does not react well with birth control, I would absolutely recommend avoiding this method at all costs. Once the shot is in you, it will stay in your system for months and months afterward. I had horrible side effects including dizziness, weakness, muscle soreness extreme cramps and bloating, and constant yeast infections, to the point where all I could do was lay in bed for a month. If you have been on birth control before and it worked well with you, you should be alright. But if is has not worked well for you in the past, this method needs to be avoided at all costs.
Weight gain, spotting for 2 months straight, cramping.
I love it.. and would recommended it..
I have 3 children that are 7yrs apart and I have gone back on the depo shot after every child. As I read these reviews some of you don't realize everybody's body handles medicine differently. I have lost weight every time. I am just the same without it as I am with it. Your hormones aren't the same as mine so some of you shouldn't take advice from others. Your body may or may not have the no period weight loss like me.
I tried using a birth control pill, but I was worried that I would forget to take them. Ever since I started taking the depo shot, I don't have any periods. I get in mood swings the first few days I get the shot, but that's it
Having been on yaz for almost 6 years and now experiencing symptoms I was saddened yet overjoyed when my OBGYN recommended that I switched to the depo shot due to problems with PCOS. I was thrilled to learn that I would not get periods, especially coming from a background that I was having month long periods or longer. After the first shot that I received in November I didnt receive a period in December and have not now for a year in a half. This should make me happy, but in the last year and a half I have gained 35 pounds. I cannot lose the weight and I am on metformin. I have awful mood swings and have noticed that I'm not happy. Yes I'm a college student , 19 years old , but how much I sleep is excessive. I sleep more than a pregnant women. I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS SHOT FOR ANYONE . I would much rather have a period, bloating, and cramps before I gain another 30 pounds. PLEASE FIND OTHER OPTIONS
I really enjoy no problems at all
The ONLY reason this shot is effective 1. You become and irritable mood b*tch, so no one will want to be around you 2. You lose your sex drive 100% even if you loved sex before, you will be absolutely appalled by it. Therefore, no sex, no friends, no pregnancy. Also you will hate yourself, even if you had no problems with self esteem in the past. And I will be complaining to my doctor for recommending this to me or ANYONE.
Terrible !!!! GAINED 30 POUNDS. Got the shot August and ended it in June. Worst 10 months of my life . Bald spots , weight gain , depression , no sex drive, nausea, BLOATING. It worked because I didn't get pregnant . But it messed my body up . Not worth it. I am done !!!!!!! I am also 19 years old.
I hate this. I became extremely depressed, apathetic, experienced mood swings, no sex drive, WEIGHT GAIN, and it was extremely hard to lose weight.
I am still bleeding for 5 months now...I am sick of it. I can't live a regular life since this horrible shot. Do Not Get This Shot Please.
It's was amazing at the end of every shot when I needed to get my next it caused me to bloat and crave certain foods but besides that it was great. I actually lost weight instead of gaining it with this shot.
Awful. I'm hungry all the time, and having a history of an eating disorder it's really starting to trigger past behaviors. I'm cramping and very lethargic, not to mention dizzy. I keep getting headaches and this is literally horrible. Never again. I've tried the pill, Skyla, condoms, and now this and they all have seemed to have horrible side effects in which some I went to the hospital for (Except the condoms).
I had to hassle with getting an appointment with a doctor. When i could get in he didnt give me all the facts. After only a week of being on it i started bleeding. I was told this would clear up after my second shot. Not the case. I bled for 3 months straight, gained weight and had mood swings. It was horrible and i would not recommended it to my worst enemy. Its hard to believe this is approved by the FDA.
awful. like all the other comments, I gained fifteen pounds in three months. I am in high school and I run track so that's virtually unlossible to gain so much. I don't want to take this ever again. I'm switching to mononessa which is helping me loose weight rapidly. everyone is different so don't base your opinion off of reviews but I will never take this again. I have never hated my body more. I was depressed and irritable. I excluded myself from my friends and low energy. hate this.
I have been on Depo-Provera for 15 years. Not the first side effect, no troubles. I spot once every few months but rarely then.
Since getting the shot I have stopped having periods. That's the reason for taking it in the first place because I have horrible ones. I've been reading a lot of comments about this which I can relate to almost all of them. I have horrible depression and getting this shot without being on my medicine is awful. I haven't had time in the last month to get a refill on my meds. It's truly a roller coaster for me and everyone around me. It doesn't help with how much weight I have gained. For over three year I kept my weight between 160 to 170. Now I know that I'm over 200. My appetite is extremely hard to control now. I hate this shot so beeping much. I don't know if I should keep on it anymore. I love not having periods anymore but at this point I'm not sure I should stay on it. If you do have mental health stuff you have to deal with all the time then definitely be careful of this.
I love the Depo shot! No weight gain no side effects and very effective to prevent pregnancy. I only have to worry about making it to my appointments every 3 months.
Worse birth control ever! I've been spotting for 3 months. It's made my vagina give off a odor. My breast are constantly sore. I cry all the time. Do NOT get this shot!!!
I have been on depo now for nearly 2years and i think it is pretty good as i no longer have periods and they used to be so heavy and painful before my two children. However i have experienced a few bad effects such as slight weight gain but not alot also i have no sex drive anymore so its definetly good for bc! And lastly i experience joint pains occasionally but to me all the negatives are worth it to not have awful heavy periods anymore. Everybody is different so you dont know till you try, dont be put off by scary reviews
I took the shot and the first month went smooth but soon after it went down hill. I gained weight extremely quickly, I pulled chunks of hair off my head some days, and I've become extremely depressed and secluded myself from the ones I love. Also during the second month I started my period and I'm still on my period a month and a half later with no signs of it near stopping. I highly recommend you do not get this shot!!! I'm I whole different person on this shot and this was the worst choice I've ever made. The cramps are extremely painful and I'm very irritated with this extended period!!! Please be careful!!!
I have been on the shot for 15 months. I gained weight very quickly. I went from 110 to 135 with no change in diet, and also while going to the gym for weight lifting and cardio exercise three times a week. The weight gained is partially muscle but definitely mostly fat. I also became very depressed. I had no motivation to go to school. I devolved severe anxiety as well. I'm always exhausted. My hair is thinning which may or may not be related. I'm always hot and extremely irritable. All of these symptoms started after the shot was in my system. Beware that doctors are trying to sell it to you. I would not recommend this for anyone. The side effects are not worth the convenience. I now have stretch marks I'll never be able to get rid of. I went from a nationally ranked athlete who was happy and healthy and pretty to sloppy looking depressed and unmotivated. If I could go back I would stay far away from this contraceptive. No amount of period irregularity, pain, or anything is worth this.
I've had the worse experience in it 2 months in & I have been having all kinds of side effects. If you have a mental illness stay away from this shot it makes you lose your mind. & IT HAS MADE ME VERY SICK. I have to force myself to eat. I get headaches. Muscle pain &spasms. Sex drive right out the window..heart palpitations. High blood pressure. Burning in the face .tingly in my tongue. Stay away from this shot it is bad.
Is it really aids and Breast cancer they are giving us?
Yes, it works as a contraceptive. However, side effects make you think twice about this type of birth control. I started my period apr 17. Today is jun 1. I am STILL on a constant flowing period. That is over 6 weeks of being on my menstrual cycle. Also, it effected my mood and I experienced weight gain (yes, I workout). The Doc says it might go away once I start on the second shot. But I'm done with this. I would rather change birth control than risk another 7 weeks of having a period that "might" (or might not) stop. Think very carefully about this one...
i have actually been on the shot for about 2 years now. i never had a problem with my periods they lasted about 3-4 days never heavy but since i been on birth control i dont really have periods, a little cramping from time to time and i really dont have any problems except for my acne and when i due for my next shot at the end of the 3 months i bleed on and off till i go to my appt. but other than that i havent gained a lot of weight over the 2 years i have gained at least 25 lbs i use to weight 135 now im at 155 but i do eat a lot at all times of the day so i think the wieght gain has parshly to do with me. but all these bad things about the depo are scaring me and i think i might take a break for my bones and see how my body reacts when trying to get it back to nomral with my periods.
I highly recommend to avoid this shot. I got it once when I was younger and had forgotten how horrible it was so nearly 10 years later I decided to try it again because I'm forgetful with the pill. I have been on it for a month and have felt like a different person and not in a good way. I have been very irritable, on edge, moody , and my appetite has been harder to control. The irritability is not normal for me and I am very upset about it as I have a toddler and am usually very patient with him but I have been quicker to get upset with him. I have been having horrible acne and it hasn't been this bad in many years. I eat a healthy diet, exercise daily and am a happy person... These side effects are from the shot ,no doubt about it . I have read so many reviews and done my research now and everything makes sense. I can't wait for it to leave me body.
I have read numerous reviews about this birth control shot. I just want to say, before getting on the shot i use to experience premenstrual cramps for 2 weeks straight. Then I would get my period and still heavy cramp and bleeding. Its like I would never get a break. Before, I had been prescribed actual pills which caused me to have headaches and tiredness. It was the worst. I love the shot and wouldn't change it. Everyone's body is different! Dont knock it till you try it!
I had my doctor prescribe me Depo-Provera for birth control but I aslo wanted to try it because I heard that it usually causes weight gain which I've been trying to do for years. It was honestly the WORST decision I've ever made in my life. I didn't gain any weight but this prolonged bleeding is horrible! I received my first shot 2/26/16 while I was on my cycle. I stopped bleeding and I had no side effects at all. Everything was fine up until that following month.I started bleeding again on March 21 and I've been bleeding non-stop ever since! I called my doctor and he told me that can happen sometimes with your first shot so he told me to come in and get my second shot a month early. So April 27 I received my second shot. Today is May 31 and I STILL have not stopped bleeding! It has really affected my sex life with my husband.Not only that, I hate pads so having to wear a tampon everyday is frustrating, not to mention VERY unhealthy. At this point I am definitely DONE with this shot. I'm just praying that I stop bleeding soon because I know that too much vaginal bleeding for a long period of time can possibly lead to a hysterectomy which would be devastating because I do want more

My doctor prescribed me depo for birth control because I'm horrible at taking the pills and never in my life have I ever had bad symptoms from taking birth control up until a few months ago I got the depo shot and I've been on my period since a week before April and now it's almost June I do not reccommend depo and I don't even think they should be giving this a birth control shot to anyone IV only ever read Bad reviews and now have witness the horrible Symptoms my self
I've 19 and have been taking Depo for almost a year now. It is great! It's helped me with my depression and sex drive is now higher. I still spot and occasionally get my periods, but I've had heavy period since I first got my period so this is a HUGE plus for me. There are so many bad reviews.... But it all depends on the person. I personally love Depo,it's simple and very good with my schedule. If you have bad eating habits, it best to start changing them before you take this birth control. I didn't gain any weight, bcz I can recognize my body changes real quick &I quickly do what is best for myself. Some downsides to this is that I get a lot of cramps,painful or minor ,usually when I should be on my period.. But just meditate&exercise or if it's really necessary,taking pain killers. Best birth control I've have
I have taken two shots of depo and it made my high sex drive completely non existent right from the very first shot. I am constantly tired and sleep any time i can and get frequet migraines. When i asked my obgyn about birth control options she simply listed them and waited for me to choose. Right then and there, without knowing the pros and cons. I asked what the shot was and all she said was the one negative side effect was weight gain which i didnt think was a bad thing since im petite. Six months later and here i am contemplating not going in for another shot because of how much it costs, how damaging it is to my sex drive, to my health and mental health. Thankfully i havent had such problems with mental health as others have die to the shot but i believe it could happen if i continue. Do not get this shot. And dont let your flimsy obgyn give you as little info as possible on b.c as i did. FORCE OUT ALL THE PROS AND CONS because this shot is not worth having no period vs having your life demolished.
This review is actually of my 19 year old daughter. Two years ago I realized I needed to get her on birth control and she agreed. So myself having 5 children and not finishing college , I didn't want to see our honor student end up like me. Now , everything has made sense of why my daughter not only growing and developing into a young lady, but that she has become a train wreck. Her moods, the change in her personality, her lack of focus on school. Not to mention the deer in the headlights look she sometimes will have. I'm not saying the shot is entirely to blame for a developing teenager, and the rollercoaster rides , even I myself took my parents through. But im convinced that this shot completely messes with a woman's hormones and needs to be improved to help with moods and tranquility.
I would not recommend this to anyone. I am constantly nauseous. I get lightheaded randomly and have random cold chills like I'm sick. My symptoms were so bad that I thought I was pregnant, but I took tests and they all came back negative. Don't get this shot!
THIS IS Terrible, Thank the lord I was reading every one else reviews! I've been on this shot for 5 years, my Doctor told me NOTHING about the side effects what so ever. I have experience the worst anxiety and depression, which is not me at all, because I have no reason to go from sad to happy to sad all the time. This isn't normal for me and it's because of the shot. Doctors should probably tell you tell you if you already have anxiety it will make it 12392014029 times worse. Now I guess I have to wait till it leaves my system. Sorry but screw doctors now a days. I would like to be a normal human being again.
I decided to try depo about 6 months later I started having the weirdest side effects and some of them really bother my husband. I was having pregnancy symptoms so I took a test came back negative, then went to my doctor she did a blood test for pregnancy came back negative. My husband was actually really sad. My nipples hurt like no other and that really bothers me. I'm an emotional rollercoaster one minute I'm crying the next min I'm happy. Its making my family very worried about my health. So I went to the doctor again and she says its normal it will pass. Well we have decided that I'm getting off depo and we are going to try for another baby. Anyways with all the side effects I do not at all recommend the depo shot.
The depo has prevented unwanted pregnancy for me however what a disaster when comming off of it after 8 years. I think this drug should be banned due to excessive weight gain and the fact they cannot tell u side-effects of comming off of it! My hormones were all out of wack causing random anxiety which I never have experienced before in my life!!! Along with mental depression, bloating, joint pain, and breast tenderness and swelling...I felt like I was going crazy till I have looked up side effects of synthetic progesterone. ..also no one ever mentioned to me when comming off what horrid mind state u can go in from withdraws. Truly sad doctors and fda cannot put 2 and 2 together when discussing side effects. Or at least give a warning as to how u will feel comming off of it....
Worst experience of my life. I never review drugs because I think its silly. But believe me when I say I am 999999x more anxious and depressed because of the depo. My sex life has been destroyed which is affecting my relationship. And I gained almost 20 pounds in my first 9 months of taking it. I seriously just want it out of my system. Please dont do this to yourself and just take the pill
I have been on the depot shot for three years now. I must say it's highly affective in not getting you pregnant but the side affects for me just arnt worth it. I get uncontrollably sad I can't even talk without hysterically crying. I've never felt so low and depressed in my life. I feel like a whole different person I'm not able to control my anger or my sadness. I feel like I've lost a lot of people because of this drug. I've realized what it's done to me and I'm counting down the days until it's out of my system. It's been so nice not having a period but it just is not worth it. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone. It's so unhealthy and not natural. No ones body can handle three months worth of hormones being injected into you. I just hope I can get my life back and half mental stability back. I never used to be sad angry or depressed. This drug has really terribly affected who I am. Please do not take this drug. Stick to the pill. Anything but the shot.
Very effective in preventing pregnancy however, if you're sensitive to the hormone in this that causes hunger and gain weight easily, you will most likely gain weight. I was never very active to begin with but on the shot, my appetite sky rocketed and I gained 13 pounds after 1 shot. I only took 1 and that was it because I didn't like not getting my period and how emotional it made me as well as the weight gain. Also noticed acne I never had before or after the shot. Everyone is different though, this was just my experience.
I must be one of the rare few.? I love depo as my form of birth control. I've been on it for 21yrs with no problems (and no periods). It really does take the 1st year for your body to get use to it. I dealt with mild spotting until my periods just stopped. A few pounds in the beginning but over the course of 21yrs I'm active and at my lightest weight. Now my Dr has asked me to take a year break for the good of my bones. The side effects I've been reading about the pill has me freaking out. Depo was fool proof protection for me personally.
i was on the depo for 5 years and did not experience any weight gain i actually lost weight the one and onlyt thing that bothered me is that i had really bad acne from it. my periods started really heavy and it seemed like i was on it forever but i loved it. i got off and about 6 months later i got pregnant with my son. although after having my son i did not go back on depo i switch to nexplanon which severely effects my mood but its not that bad either. my son will be 3 this year and i have not gotten pregnant yet !!!!
Been on depo for 7 years since I was 12 years old. I dont have periods at all. I gain maybe 10-20 pounds but you can loose it quickly. I havnt got pregnant so its great
DO NOT USE THIS DRUG. My doctor said it would help my severe cramps and excessive bleeding. She told me my period would stop. After my first shot I started bleeding every day. The doctor told me my body was "getting used to the drug" and a 2nd shot would make it better. After my 2nd shot my bleeding continued every day. I bled for 6 months without a pause. I also had horrible anxiety, depression, all the PMS mood swings. Before Deposit my moods would last a day or two, with Depo in my system the moods would last two weeks. I thought I was going insane. I called her and explained my reaction. She said I had an unusual response. I spoke to her staff asking them if they ever tried it, and three of them said they had a bad/similar response. I left the drug. I left the doctor. I am now back to normal after several months with no lingering side effects. I wouldn't let my enemies take this drug.
I started depo after getting my mirena iud removed. I wanted something quick and easy as a form of birth control. I've heard about women gaining weight and having extreme side effects from the shot but I figured everyone is different and I decided to give it a try. I absolutely regret it! I only had 2 shots(So I was on it for 6 months). I gained almost 20 pounds! My pants don't fit anymore. I had terrible mood swings. My appetite was crazy.. Like I was ALWAYS hungry! Terrible for me. I don't recommend it. Only good thing about it for me was I had very clear skin. Not one bit of acne. But I would take a couple of blemishes over rapid weight gain any day!
I would never recommend this birth control to even my worst enemy. I was on the shot for 3 years. In that time, I gained 50 pounds, my emotions are all over the place, I'm constantly depressed and anxious, and my sex drive is completely gone. Not to mention the random bleeding that occurred. I had a horrible experience with this form of birth control and I will NEVER go back!!
I've been on depo- provera for 20 yrs now. When I first started the shot, it was terrible. I was bleeding off and on for about 6 months. My Doctor told be to wait it out for 1 more shot and then decide if I wanted to come off of it. Thank-goodness I did. I Love it!!!! No more periods!!!!!!!!!
I started the depot shot in November 2014 and now at May 2016 I decided to stop. Although it is very effective it messed up my body severely. I've been on my period for over a year straight with only two or three weeks of a break in between. If it wasn't so affective and easy (once every three months) I would have stopped long ago. At this point I just realized my health is more important and I need to get it back to normal.
I'll say that it prevented me from getting pregnant - which is great! But over the course of the 3 months I gained 35 pounds...the food cravings were intense and they seemed like there was never a moment when I didn't want to eat.
I switched to Depo around a year and a half ago because I was having terrible migraines from estrogen in other birth controls. Once starting, my migraines completely went away. Again, I have been on the shot for over a year now and I have not experienced any adverse side effects. I have not gained any weight over the past year, and my periods completely stopped after the second shot. Recently, there has been slight bleeding around week 12 when the shot is to be administered again. I talked to my doctor and she said that some women need to come ever 10 weeks rather than every 12. It depends on each individual to get adjusted. Overall, I would recommend this shot.
I was on depo for 5 1/2 years overall. Loved it! I used to have very intense periods and a month after starting depo I was period free! Only downfall for me was getting off depo to try and get pregnant and took almost 8 months. Guess that's when you know your birth control works really good
I will never do this again. I'm not even going back for my second shot. What's the point of getting on birth control if you can't have sex cause you are bleeding for so long?? I have not stopped bleeding and it's miserable always having to worry about tampons I buy a box at least once a week! Never get this shot!
I decided to try the depo after taking the pill for 14 years, because not having a period at all sounded great. I was on the depo shot for 6 months (2 shots). Immediately after my first shot sex was very painful, and I bled for the entire 6 months. I had horrible depression and mood swings. I also gained about 10 lbs despite regular exercise and improved eating habits knowing weight gain was a side effect. After losing my sex drive (it wasn't always painful, I just had no sex drive) and all the other side effects I experienced, I decided to not take the shot again. It's been a month and I've had pain in my breasts and although my mood and depression has subsided, I still feel the emotional effects. I have friends who have had great experiences with the depo and been able to conceive a couple months after being off the depo. I was concerned about my side effects and did a lot of reading about other women's side experiences with the depo, so I hope this helps someone who is having the same issues or is considering going on depo.
I've been on the Depo-Provera for a year now, I started taking it because I would have really bad cramps and bleeding on my period. Ever sense I got it I haven't had a single period, or spotting. I've enjoyed it so far. Haven't had any side effect, not even a single cramp. So eveything is working out for me. :)
I've been on the depo shot for 7 years now . I love it !! I don't have periods at all, minor cramping but nothing compared to the period cramps I experienced while I wasn't on the shot. I noticed I do have mood swings sometimes (or maybe I'm just a brat) I'm not sure...also I do get facial hair but nothing too crazy. I would suggest this as it is very effective ! If you don't want to get pregnant, the side effects may be worth it !
I'm 21 years old and I have been on the Depo Provera shot for almost two years now. Worst decision I have made in my life. Although it is extremely effective in preventing pregnancy... I have gained over 30-40 pounds! I have always been a bit on the chubby side with fluctuating weight but since I started this shot I cannot get the weight to come off! My self esteem was already pretty low but with the weight gain and the depression it has caused I'm at an all time low. I also have cystic acne under my arms so bad That they oose puss and blood and leave a nasty scar once they heal. I regret starting this bc everyday, it has destroyed my body and my confidence, I cry everyday, I never want to be seen in public, and it's taken a drastic toll on my sex life... I'm finally calling it quits with this horrible bc. I just hope I can get my life back once I do.
Don't take this!!!! And if you have already, use organic, blackstrap molasses to get your spotting to stop!!! I tried two rounds of the Depo shot for birth control. I immediately started spotting and didn't stop for 8 months. By that time it was finally leaving my system, and I then experienced five periods in two months. It also heavily affected my mood. I was crazy emotional the whole time and heavily struggled with depression, which is not normal for me. It took a year for my body to get back to normal, during said time my sex life was also heavily affected because of all the bleeding and cramping. I read a user review that suggested taking a tablespoon of organic, blackstrap molasses everyday and IT TOTALLY WORKED! That's when my spotting slowed down and my body started getting back to normal. Use this to get back to your old self!!!!!
DO NOT GET THIS SHOT! I took birth control pills for many years and recently was forgetting to take them. So my doctor recommended Depo. It was the worst thing I could have done for myself. I have crazy acne on my face now, major migraines, I'm constantly tired, and that's just the start of it. I used to have heart palpitations a little over a year ago and after starting this shot they came back worse than before. I'm always irritable and dizzy. I have never felt this ill in my life. And not to mention the periods! I no longer can keep track of them. When they come it's severe cramps and bleeding for a long period of time. I cannot wait for this to get out of my system.
I was having heavy bleeding on my period that caused me to become very anemic. My ob/gyn recommended depo provera. She told me it would stop my period. I took the shot in the beginning of March. About a week or two later I started bleeding and it's only stopped 3-4 days in between then. After about two weeks of being on my period I called my doctor's office and no one seemed to be alarmed or could tell me when it would stop, which leads me to believe it's a common side effect. I'm very upset that this drug was recommended since I am only using it to control bleeding, not contraceptive. I now still have to take iron. I also began to experience a lot of anxiety and ended up in the emergency room after it caused me to have chest pain five days straight. They gave me a shot of Ativan after running test to make sure the chest pain wasn't due to amenia. I have no history of anxiety issues. I started crying nearly every day, it's made me very emotional. I am normally not very emotional I cry 1-2 times a year. I haven't cried this much since I was a little girl. I now have to take Zoloft and Xanax to manage my mood. I am a clinical social worker and consider myself to be pretty self-aware
I was recommended the depo shot after not having any good experience with oral birth control and having almost died from a ruptured ovarian cyst and periods that took me to ER - I agreed with the doctors choice and got ONE shot. I was told my periods were supposed to get lighter or disasters all together. Well, that was far from what happened. I bled for 6 months straight! I had maybe 2 breaks in those 6 months where for a bout a week or two my bleeding stopped. I eventually went to see a doctor who than had to put me on a patch to stop the bleeding-which it did thank God. Than I had to get off the patch because my skin would get a reaction from it. After getting off the patch , my hormones went all out of wack! I'm 24 years old and I had the worst break out on my face with cystic acne that lasted months, and now requires thousands of dollars of laser treatments. I blame this all on depo. It ruined my entire year as it was coming out of my system , and I can only hope to go back to not having any acne and having regular periods. I now have been put on spironolactone and another oral bc. I will never suggest anyone taking this shot. I don't know how this shot is still on the market
I have been on depo for over 5 years (longer than recommend) but I have thoroughly enjoyed it. I find it convenient that I don't have to worry about taking a pill everyday & can just go get the shot every 3 months. I also don't get a period. I spot for a day about a week or so before its time to get the shot again. I may have gained about 10 pounds due to the shot, but I was really small when I started so I didn't mind. I haven't gotten pregnant so I guess it's working. :)
It has been horrible . I have bled for the last 5 month. The cramps are horrible and I am dizzy All the time I am so over this shot.
I got this shot because I've always had terrible period cramps and periods in general. After I got the shot I didn't get my period for a month which was great but my happiness soon turned to sadness when my period actually came it did help with my cramps and other period symptoms which was a plus but my period last for 4 months STRAIGHTS I was very sad I cried all the time , the doctor had me convinced they would stop after I get my second shot DO NOT GET THE SECOND SHOT!!!!!!!!! for 5 and a half months I was on my period which soon made me anemic because I was loosing so much blood my iron levels are low. I wish I knew this before I took this... I wouldn't recommend my worst enemy taking this shot
I've always had extremely bad cycles. Since I was 12, my cycles would last 7-10 days. I'm 23 now and in January I decided to try depo for my heavy cycles. Things seemed fine for the first shot, a little cramps here and there but nothing too bad. My 2nd shot was awful. I keep praying this gets out of my system as soon as possible. Not only am I now suffering severe stomach issues and still bleeding, but I've lost weight and the depression is terrible. I cry and cry and I cannot control it. I'm honestly scared of this shot. My father had to console me for over an hour, after he found me crying uncontrollably. I am not like this at all! Please, do not get this shot. I know everyone is different but I can agree with some of the comments saying this should be illegal. Depo is one of the worst choices I've made. I will be switching to Loestrin. Do your research please.
I do not take depo; however I work in the health industry and give the injection. When used for birth control it's 99% effective when on schedule. We here at our clinic tell our patients up front that the #1 side effect is weight gain. However, this does not occur in all patients. We also mention mood swings; if your already prone to mood swings or depression; not the best choice for you obviously. Generally; womens periods cease. Some women can have irregular spotting or bleeding. Sometimes this can be controlled or stopped by visiting your provider and given a low hormone birth control pill to take in conjunction with the injection. With any method you should give your body time to adjust. If it's not working out talk to your provider about a new method.
I have not even taken it for a year yet but I already know this is one of the worst decisions I have made yet. I have gained 40 pounds since I started taking it almost eight months ago, I still bleed sporadically and I bleed so much when I do that no tampon will help and the blood clots are massive as well as it usually lasts for a month when I do bleed. Additionally, my mood swings are horrific and I am beginning to worry about bipolar disorder, my depression is worse my a long run and I intend to discontinue taking it as soon as possible. I highly recommend NEVER starting taking it. And on top of my own experience, the more I read the worse it gets the longer you have it.
I'm 20 years old and in college and I'm extremely active and I am also a vegetarian. I have been on Depo now for 5 years and at first I LOVED IT! No mood swings, no weight gain, no acne nothing. Now being in college, It has caused my IBS to flare up, I have constant cramping and I also cant poop for up to 3 weeks! I workout 4 times a week sometimes 5 and I still cant lose weight no matter what...... I am the same pants size that I was in high school, so no gain there but over the past two year I have gained 20 pounds and I cant deal with it anymore. I don't recommend , I never did get pregnant so its awesome there and I highly recommend it for that, but everything else is awful
This is the worst shot ever! Should be illegal to take. I had the shot every 3-4 months for a year and a half. Now, my cycle is either non existent or I am on it for a full year non stop! I also can no longer have children, and my levels of everything are so screwed up. I had taken it 6 years ago and to this day my body is still messed up because of it. DO NOT GET THIS SHOT FOR WHATEVER REASON!
I got my first shot feb 26th and i should have done my research before taking this poison! I have been spotting for 2 weeks straight so far. My mood swings are off the charts and my anxiety and depression are at an all time high. Im not the same person anymore! I'm extremely tired all the time. I can sleep for about 13 hours a night and still feel physically and mentally drained. I will never go back for another shot! I cant wait for this 3 months to be over with and for me to have my normal life back. Please do your research before you take this nasty stuff! Its not worth it!!
I started the shot the third week of January. I wish I could post an attachment to this comment so I could show you screenshots of my period diary. I have been bleeding almost nonstop since I started it. It's like a normal period, but as soon as you think it's about to stop, your uterus is like "nope! Fooled you!" And presents you with lots more red fluid. I've had maybe ten days TOTAL of no bleeding over the past 11 weeks. Not even close to being consecutive. Bleeding ranges from 17-26 day stretches. Not an exaggeration. I couldn't tell you if it's effective or not because my boyfriend won't have sex with me since my vagina is like the embodiment of a Bloody Mary 24/7. I wish I was kidding. Also, I'm 5' and always weighed 90 lbs roughly. Never broke 100 in my young life until I took this shot. Now an astounding 105 and I no longer fit in any of my pants. Gaining weight always sounded like such a good idea in theory but when you have to wear yoga pants or leggings every day because you can't wedge your newly massive thighs into what used to be your fat jeans, it's a whole other story. I mean, I can fill out a bra which is new to me but I don't have the funds for a whole wardrob
I just started the Depo shot (about a month and a half ago) and it was one of the best things I've done. I was very nervous getting my first shot, after reading all the horror stories online, but went through with it anyways. I usually have very painful cramps during my period so my doctor suggested the shot (since the regular birth control pill was not helping). I was very concerned about gaining weight and having irrational mood swings, but as of yet I have not experienced either. I'm 20 y/o and live a fairly active lifestyle. I haven't had a period at all yet with no cramps what so ever. I know different drugs effect people differently, but you won't know until you try. I know Depo might not be for everyone, but as of yet it's worked wonders for me!
THIS STUFF SHOULD BE ILLEGAL. I took this shot twice and it was the worst choice I've ever made. Caused extreme depression and anxiety. Gained a ton of weight. Took me 8 months after last shot to get my period and my life back together. The mood swings took over and I lost a lot because of it. A psychiatrist pointed out the link between the timing of the depo shots and the drastic mood issues. I'm going to be posting my experience on every site I find. We need to make the medical industry accountable because this shot literally can ruin your life!
depo has been the worst mistake I made for my body and mind. since getting my first shot in Dec 2015 I bled continously and have the worst migraines and anxiety which sent me to the emergency twice. don't know what came over me and thought to give it another try on March 2016 and things just got worse. I have depression which I never had before my anxiety is heightened and I can't sleep at night. I have mood swings and the migraines are just worse. it is the worst possible thing I have done to myself and I am in so much regret for what I did to my body and mind. I'm so miserable because of it and it's so hard to raise twins feeling like a zombie everyday. I will never take this again and I hope if anyone decides to take this they do their research this is not for everybody and I really wish I did my research.
I hate the Depo. It makes me bleed very heavy for three months and it caused me to gain a lot of weight! I went from a healthy 150-215 in three months!!! This is awful and makes you fat and miserable!! I would not suggest it
Terrible. I'm 42 and have had endo 20 yrs. I got tired of living with my symptoms and sought out an obgyn. I was told this was all the options open to me due to my 42 yr. age. I am upset that the Dr. when asked about this injection, ANY side effects etc.. Absolutely not-she says. I did get one injection 6 weeks ago and 2 days after i had no-no no appetite. i drink ensure now. Worst is the constant severe hot flashes and dread I feel every day that I did'nt feel before. depression, no sex drive, headaches all the time. I'm seeking another Dr. and can't wait to bleed 2 weeks a month as opposed to all this.
I'm 24 years old and have been on the depo shot for 6 years. The first year it was okay, I had some headaches and was tired here and there but figured it was from the 45 hours I worked. The longer I was on it the worse I felt. I started having terrible anxiety, depression, mood swings, bone loss, etc. I have low blood anyways but I have yet to have a period in 6 years. It has also caused me to be infertile which absolutely breaks my heart. I most definitely do not recommend anyone being put on this period no matter what. It has caused a lot of heartache and many things I cannot change that I have to live with for the rest of my life.
AWFUL!!! Depression, weight gain (20 lbs in 6 weeks), dizzy, terrible anxiety, mood swings, hot flaahes, daily headaches, bloating, gassiness, SO tired all of the time, skin problems (didn't have them before) etc.... Stay far away from Depo....I wasn't informed when I got the shot, otherwise I never would have done it! I only got 1 shot. Never again!
When I first went on depo provera, I thought it was great. No periods & no pregnancy. Little did I know a short time later I started getting hot flashes every day all day, headaches, loss of appetite, MOOD SWINGS, depression, my anxiety came back, and there's been multiple times when a certain part of my body became numb or far to weak to even hold a coffee cup. I haven't got the second shot yet, but my appointment is very soon. I love the fact that this only has to be taken 4 times a year & it's highly effective in preventing pregnancy and no period but I'm not sure if it's worth it. The mood swings and hot flashes would probably be the most common and intense side effects for me, I will be perfectly fine one minute and the next I'm so angry about the STUPIDEST things, and I cannot control it. My sex drive didn't change much, and I've got spotting but it's a super super super small amount. I've read other reviews and the pill seems to work fantastic for some people. I just cannot handle the crazy uncontrollable mood swings. I think Im going to switch.
I'm 23 years old will be 24 in May. I started off with the IUD after I had my son through c-section in May of 2012. I kept it for 6 months because I couldn't stand the horrible lower abdominal pain & pain from sex which my partner wasn't very comfortable because he could feel the rod during sex. I got it taken out & ever since then 2012 then to now 3 & a half years I've been on the Depo. I give this 5 stars for my experience. Pros: No period, little cramps, headaches here & there, & weight well my diet is horrible yet I don't see that my weight has anything to do with the birth control. Cons: Going to the Doc every 3 months is a pain. I'm also very much concerned about how long I've been on this & what it's doing to my body. What if this is damaging my chances of having another baby? Tomorrow I'm going to my gyno doc to further myself to another birth control option. I'm not sure how I feel about implant in my arm but I am thinking about it...
I have been on the Depo shot for almost 2 years now & I am 20 years old. I've always had an irregular period, so not having one at all or only every 3 months sounded great. I have never experienced cramps or had any warning of when my period would arrive before this shot. At first, everything was great & I had no side effects. It was right around the 1 year mark that I started having awful cramps that would cause me to puke. I have only had my period 3 times since being on the shot, but when I did, it lasted for over a month every time. Just recently when getting a haircut, my mom realized my hair was half as thick as it used to be & it was dead. It's falling out in clumps & my hair will not grow. I know for a fact the reason my hair is falling out & breaking off is because of the shot. Do not get this, I do not recommend.
I have been taking Depo Provera since I was 14 and I am now 32 I have never had any kids and at the same time it made me feel like a disaster I do not do not do not recommend form of birth control I am trying to have children as we speak but my body already thinks it has kids and it didn't so I am pretty much at war with the reverse psych what are some side effects of the medication trying to make dried to make myself have kids finally please do not take this medication if you want to get pregnant down the line the worseform of medication for birth control
So I'm hoping this will help someone, because this was/is the scariest experience. I started depo a year ago, everything sounded so good, no blood during my periods, helps cramps, 'minimal side effects' they said, plus I didn't have to worry about taking a pill everyday. Perfect! For the first month after my first injection I bleed everyday, but after a talk with the doctor I waited and sure enough, the bleeding stopped. For six months I loved it. Minimal side effects quick easy and I only had to worry about a period once every three months, where the walls would shed for a couple days. On my third injection I started getting tired, I have to wake up at 6 for my job and I was noticing I was in bed dozing off around 7pm and I would still wake up tired. I shared this at my next injection time and the doctor was suprised at my constant tiredness and said it may have been the way it was injected, so I got the 4th shot. Everything went downhill from there. Not only did my insomnia get worse, I started getting really depressed, a simple arguement with my fiance would turn into me going crazy screaming slamming doors throwing things only to cry and having thoughts of suicide in my head mo
I'm 21, I've been on it for 8 months,since my son was born in July. For the first 3 or four months I hated it because I had constant bleeding which I though was lochia but my ob said it was from the shot so he put me on the pill with it for a few months and the bleeding cleared up quickly. I haven't had a period in a few months, which is great. The only side effect I've really associated with the shot is pain at the injection site, otherwise everything is fine. I had depression prior to taking the shot so I can't associate it with any additional emotions, if anything my mood is better on the shot. I definitely recommend to any new comers, but keep in mind, as with any birth control there will be side effects and birth control isn't going to be perfect. If you have any symptoms you feel wary about call your doctor, there are plenty of birth controls out there and you may need to go through a few to find the right one.
I started the shot on January 25th on the last day of my period. I have Benign Phasiculation Syndrome. I've noticed that my syndrome has been acting up a lot more since I got the shot. I didn't get my period for a month and a half and when I did I only bled for a full day & since then I've been having brown discharge. It's been 11 days & it has not stopped. It's annoying & it gets in the way of my sex life. I had regular periods before the shot. They would last 5 days. The only thing that seemed better was I have no bloating & I only had cramps for a day. I have gained Weight & I can see it mostly on my face & belly area. I will be going to my doctor & asking her to change me to the pill & see how that works out. Also, I have been taking two vitamin d pills every day since I started the shot.
I got my first shot December 2,2015 and my second on march 4,2016. During the first round, I felt awesome. No period for the three months except two weeks with some spotting. Just got my second shot and two weeks later I feel completely depressed. I have barely any energy and when I get upset it's all encompassing and turns to real anger way faster than usual. I'm glad for all the other reviews here because I was really freaking out on what was wrong with me. It's been very stressful for my boyfriend too. I'm glad to not be able to get pregnant, but I'm not sure feeling like this all the time is worth it.
I was on depo for nearly 7 years I thought it was great until I realised the serious side which was never explained until I broke my leg badly by just falling over I developed serious joint pain and arthritis in my elbow just from walking my dog I had pins and needles in my lower arms every morning and lots more I had to go to my doctors and ask them and they said I shouldn't have been on it soo long I used to get lumps and numbness when I had my jab and was never told it was not a good sign since I have been off it over a month I replaced it with hormonal coil and I was told there would be no side effects but I've had serious eruption of spots and I never get spots my hair has fallen out and thinned yet my upper lip has developed hair! I ache my back hurts soo much my frame is shrinking I throw up for no reason at any point of the day randomly I get sort of diarrhoea at any random time I just loose myself at time when I am normally balanced and keep everything and my family working I'm less motivated in a world of my own snappy and very angry at times for no reason I hate it my gums and teeth and sore also help x
It was my first time ever taking birth control , Im 17 turning 18 in 3 months . God worst expiercence ever I was so emotional , I would cry for hours and for no reason , It caused me so much depression , Not to mention I get killer headaches now and trouble sleeping , This was a very bad expierence for me , my periods were 2 weeks long and cramps were more painful.
I was on depo for 5 years and loved it. I never had any side effects and it was awesome not having a period. I decided to go off it since reading some articles on how it's detrimental to your body. That's when the problems started. It took about 3 months to get my period back and it came back with worse cramps than ever. I also developed irritable bowel like symptoms that have been occurring on a bi weekly basis for over the past year. I am miserable. I would not recommend this drug to anyone!
Never ever ever get this:( to my ladies who suffer migraines or headaches regularly.. Coming off of this shot was my worst life experience. I had the first shot in February 2015 and finished my second shot in October 2015. Around Early September, I got this headache. It turned into a migraine but I thought nothing of it being because of the depo. Weeks go by and I still have this killer headache.. And another week and another week and another. IT LASTED 6 MONTHS. Most times I called of work, because I couldn't see out of my right eye. (I usually see bright blotches when I get migraines.) It wasn't till end of February 2016 till it went away. I FEEL LIKE A NEW HUMAN BEING. honestly, I was very depressed and suicidal.. My boyfriend had to monitor me a lot because I couldn't hold down food, my eyes turned yellow around them, and my hair was falling out in chunks. I was 130 lbs at 5'9, with long crazy curly hair. When I was sick, I was 107 lbs with brittle and dry hair (I had none left!!) I am a model, so I had to take a break because I was so depressed and I was told I was too anorexic by my loved ones. Each day that's passed since my Depo Withdrawls.. I've gotten healthier. I'm happy
I started taking this For birth control I degeneracy gained weight but not in a bad way, I used to weight 112 and now I weight 129. The only bad thing that I got from the shot was acne on one side of my cheek, so I am going back to my doctor this coming up Monday to see my options. I didn't start getting acne until my 2nd shot, in February 2016 so it took about 5 months.
Worst thing I've ever experienced. I got the shot about Jan 23 and 2 weeks later I'm a sick mess. Everything i try to digest I can't except water food didn't even appeal to me. I had to go to the ER twice for dehydration. I've gotten anxiety out of no where. I'm still having my period every month. I've gotten depression and I'm forever moody now. I hate it. Does it help of course because I haven't wanted to have sex since I've gotten the shot. Horrible drug.
Okay so I started the Depo on February 23, 2016 It is now March 18 and I started spotting yesterday and am still spotting today which could be because I missed my period but spotting is dark and annoying and I just want to try different birth control already but of course it's not reversible and I have to wait until it wears off now...
I'm 16 and I've been on depo for a little over a year now I believe. I've read a lot of posts where people say it's really terrible and that they hate it but I love it. I haven't gained any weight , I haven't had migraines. Its been the best thing for me because I could never remember to take the pill every single day at the same exact time .
I love this! It has helped me eat a lot. I mean for less weight like me! No side effects for me though! I will keep an update on how this depo is
I've been on the depo shot for almost 5 years now. My period stopped (fantastic!), and as I realize how risky this is, I've had unprotected sex this entire time. No pregnancies at all and I find this shot to be very effective. I've been reading up on how it changes our bodies and such; honestly over the course of 5ish years, the only side effect I have experienced is weight gain. It sucks, but I'd rather gain some pounds than get stuck being responsible for a child from that point on. I got on this shot in high school and am now about to graduate college. I was active in high school, so the weight gain didn't hit me until after I stopped playing sports and started smoking weed and eating bad foods. So I feel that as long as you just maintain your health, you will be fine. It only makes you gain weight if you let it! I have not had emotional issues, facial hair in weird spots, or hair loss. The side effects do freak me out but I figure I would have at least experienced something now. Something to keep in mind though is every medicine, every drug reacts to each persons body differently. I truly believe this is worth a shot, unless you have a bad experience or start to see side effect
I have been taking depo-provera for about 7 years now. I have occasionally missed an appointment and had to wait to start back up. During that time the worst of my side effects were gaining the 10-15 pounds upon starting the depo again. Almost everytime i missed an appointment I would loose the weight, then gain it again upon restarting. My period stopped immediately, without spotting while missing appointments. I did take a year break from the birth control to make sure I even could get my period back, which showed up around 7 months after. My period was much more intense, but it had also been years since I had felt period cramps again, so it was hard to tell if it was because of the shot or if I was just being a pansy. I also noticed it was very easy to break my bones after breaking my ribs twice within two years. Knowing depo causes bone loss, I try to take vitamins but the reason why I chose depo was to not take a pill everyday, so it's very hard to remember my daily vitamins. Overall I haven't had that bad of an experiance with this birth control. I do have fears of what the long term effects might be, which is why I ended up on this website.
I just got the depo shot in January of 2016 worst decision ever. I'm a pretty care free person and very outgoing but after this shot I have major anxiety and just don't want to do anything anymore. My sex drive has pretty much disappeared and I have stomach cramps quite a bit. I would not recommend this to anyone. I can not wait for this to be out of me and hopefully get back to normal.
I recently have gotten my third shot. I am 25 and before Depo, I've been on the pill. For the last 2weeks I have been spotting and have to wear tampons daily. I have also gained 11pounds already. Think I may switch back to my pills!!
Ok so i started it after i had my daughter in may 2009. It was going well until i missed shot date. I went and got it three days later. About two months later i found out i was pregnant. My doc said there is no way i should have gotten preg because my apps are scheduled for 2 weeks early. But i did and it was with triplets. Wow right. So i got back on it after my babies were born june of 2010. Since then i have had no problems except bad acne. No bleeding what so ever, no pain no nothing until 2015. I noticed my joint where hurting all over my body and been having stomach pain like hell. So now its march 2016 and now i been bleeding bright red blood every few days and my stomach hurts so bad sometimes i cant move. I go to the doc march 21 and im so scared they just gonna say its normal because this is not normal after being on it for this long with no problems.
I stopped getting my period immediately. About 4 weeks After my first shot I was extremely irritable. My joints started to ache very deeply to where I would cry in my sleep. I became depressed gained 50 lbs and completely lost my appetite. Fatigue was unbelievable. I had very bad experience with this drug. Would not recommend. I have been off it for 6 weeks and I feel about 50% better so I am hopeful .
I've only received 1 shot to try and stop my bleeding. I'd tried 3 or 4 different types of birth control pills, none would stop my bleeding. Depo did stop the bleeding after about 3 weeks, so I was blissfully happy for 2 weeks, then the side effects kicked in: 1. Terrible acne on my back, like a 14 year old pubescent boy (I'm 50) and I've NEVER had issues with acne. It was painful, irritated and itchy. It finally calmed down after 7 -10 days after the dermatologist prescribed some anti bacterial creams. But still have all the marks and still itchy, hoping they go away after a while. 2. Sporadic hives all over my body. 3. Incredibly itchy soles of my feet, hands and back, like I want to scratch to the bone. 4. Bruising very easily on my legs, sometimes for no reason. 5. Bouts of acid re flux, again I've NEVER had issues with acid re flux.
Terrible terrible terrible!! cannot wait for this drug to be out of my system. I have aalso been a confident happy person but since being on this drug for nearly 2 years made me very anxious, terrible acid reflux, leg pains, nausea, stomach cramps. Feel very upset and angry that my doctor did not tell me any of the side effects as I definitely wouldn't have taken this drug. I have been to see my doctor and told him what I have read of several sites about the side effects according to other peoples experiences he wouldn't accept it was this drug. I also have to take propranolol for racing heart which I've never had a problem with before Dec 2014. I am convinced it is this drug but no one will admit it.
This drug is the worst!!! I had only 1 shot, after losing my right ovary; It was meant to help but really made things sooo much worse. (Btw, I wanted to conceive, and my doc. told me that after 3 months I can try again)... NOT REALLY. I was bleeding/spotting the whole 3 months, later had to be on contraceptives for a couple of months to regulate my menses and my endometrium was SO thin for more than a year, that it was not good for even attempting any assisted fertility treatments... I have gained 19 pounds (!) in one year, without changing eating habits; now weighing 10 stones, and my body has also changed its "texture"; had severe joint pains (and had to have physiotherapy for my right hand); had depression for 5+ months, and some hair loss...to name the most bothering side effects.
Extremely bad acne on this shot and after being off for 1-1/2 years still have not had a normal period. Definitely do not recommend to anyone.
I just had my third Depo shot and I love it. I tend to have one, two-week period per shot, which isn't so bad. The rest of the time nothing. The first couple of day after the shot are a little rough--I tend to get hot flashes, I think from the mega dose of hormones--but after that it's smooth sailing. It's one of the only hormonal methods that doesn't kill my sex drive or cause migraines. I seem to have gotten lucky with it, I would definitely recommend that it be tried for at least one shot to see if your body tolerates it well like mine does.
After having a tubal ligation 6 years ago my doctor decided to put me on the shot 2 years ago becuse my periods would last for weeks at a time. Sometimes even twice a month but I noticed while on the shot I had no periods at all so in that sense it was a good thing but I was still having a little spotting from time to time so I took it upon myself to take myself off of the shot about 6 months ago and I have yet to have a period.
I was on the shot for 3 years & I loved it! I never had any issues. My periods went away completely after about the first month, I never experienced any negative side effects from it, the only thing I disliked was the inconvenience of getting the shot every 3 months. I switched to implanon a year & a half ago & it's just terrible. I am thinking of switching back to the shot.
I took the shot on November 25 2014 and my period finally stopped the following year November 23 2015. Two days shy of a one year period. When asked by my doctor, "Outside of the constant period, does it seem to work though?" .....of course it freaking does, because I just turned into a born again virgin!! Don't risk it, I've heard more bad than good!
At the beginning of february, 2016, I got my first and only shot of Depo for birth control, after the birth of my son. The severity of my depression has tripled - I had to start taking Zoloft in order to curb this - I've broken out in rashes and hives all over my body, I've been on my period for over three weeks now, I've had almost constant migraines, been ridiculously irritable and snappy, my anxiety has doubled, I've experienced dizziness and vision problems as well as hearing issues as well; as convenient as it is (one shot every 3 months) I would never recommend this birth control method to anyone. The cons heavily outweigh the pros, and have made life absolutely miserable for me. DO NOT RECOMMEND.
6 months in and im over it! I stopped breastfeeding a month later I went on this injection. I am bigger now than I was when I first stopped breastfeeding. I am going back to the pill. I spotted for 3 weeks strait, this is not for everyone. im done.
This form of birth control was very effective for me. I have been using it for about a year now and I really like it. Before I had tried it my periods sometimes lasted up to 12 days and we're very heavy. I have not had one period since being on the depo shot and although some people may say that is unhealthy, try having a period last for almost 2 weeks. Yes I gained some weight and may be a little more emotional, that is a risk I am willing to take. Overall, it effects everyone differently. My doctor said there is a small percentage of people however, that will get a period everyday of the month on it and should stop using it. Luckily that wasn't the case for me!
Didnt like it. I have stomach pains and nausea all the time. Im super tired and ive had a pd for abt 3 weeks now. Horrible
Don't ever try it , I spot non stop , I have to wear tampons daily n the colour is unusual looking , very very dark , I just hate the dam thing
Wow I did not expect to see so many bad reviews because it was wonderful for me! I had it for two years and no periods at all! No mood swings, no weight gain, I loooved it. I just recently had a baby and want to get on it again, the only thing holding me back is the risk of osteoporosis because I am so young. But other than that I loved it, and might get it again following my 6 week check up.
STAY AWAY! This birth control has given me anxiety, killed my sex drive, and increased my depression! The human body isn't meant to be shocked with 3 months of hormones at once, and it shows! The increase risk of Osteoporosis is very scary very real side effect of this drug. The side effects aren't just mental, this drug will weaken your bones due to a lack of the ability to process calcium. Please don't do this to yourself! I'm just waiting for it to ware off so I can get my life back!
Terrible experience. I loved the idea of the convenience of the quarterly shot and couldn't take estrogen-based BC due to another medical condition. Unfortunately, I ran the gauntlet of most of the side effects. My skin broke out in severe acne, I gained 20 pounds, my moods were irregular, I was more prone to soreness during intercourse and worst of all I experienced nearly constant moderate spotting while on the shot. After a year of constant struggle and bleeding I decided to stop the shot and continued bleeding half of each month for four months after the last shot was supposed to have run out. Overall a terrible experience, would not recommend.
It's three weeks in, and I was supposed to start my period 2 and a half weeks ago, and there is no period or cramps in sight! I have only experienced a little bit of increased emotional response to sad things or stress, but it's been subsiding more and more everyday. It has actually decreased my appetite! If anything changes, I will update my review, but so far this works very well for me!
Never ever take this drug. Should be taking off the shelf. Terrible side effects that can affect you the rest of your life....use other birth control methods . I should have read the reviews before getting the shit. I am niw 25 pounds over the weight I was before the shit. My hair is thinned and falling out. I am depressed and severe headaches. I cannot sleep. I have NO sex drive and No periods since I got the shot only 3 times. Williams never recommend to anyone.
I started Depo about 3 months ago and I wish I did it sooner. It's a much better experience than with the pill, which had caused mood swings, depression and sexual side effects. While I have gained 6 pounds and my breasts are a little tender, I have not had a period and my mood has been stable.
ive only been on depo shot for 3 months, i am about to get my second shot but already it has affected me negatively. ive been having periods for 10 years and they have never EVER lasted more than 4 days ever. and sence being on depo i have had 2 periods that both lasted between 8and 10 days. thats an insanely long time for me. also i have been breaking out alot more than usual. and my sex drive has decreased considerably. sex isnt painful but its not enjoyable anymore. its like im numb down there. on the plus side i havnt gotten pregnant and havnt been using condoms with my husband. so thats good....on another note i havnt had any weight gain as of yet. but i am considering other forms of birth control. this one seemed easier because i suck at remembering to take pills everyday.
Every time I get a cold I get a heavy period towards the end of it. It's the last thing you want when you're sick. Otherwise I rarely get a period.
Take it off the market!!!! What a horrible horrible drug. I suffered an ectopic pregnancy and misscarriage due to this poisonous drug amount the many other nasty side effects.
WORST BIRTH CONTROL EVER!!!! I gained about 30 pounds while on this drug and my period lasts for weeks on end. I have been on depo for about 1 year and 1/2 and I still get my period very often. I would not recommend !!!
I've been on this shot for 12 years. My body knows when I am getting close to shot time again. I have had no periods.. No weight gain.And no other side effects. I would recommend this to anyone not wanting another child and those who need a different type of birth control besides the pill and without having a foreign object placed in their body.
Depo Rocks. Going 12 years strong. No period, no weight gain, and if anything it stabilizes my mood lol lol Had a healthy son during that time as well and it took only 3 months without a injection to get pregnant. Everyone is different and this definitely works for me!
Do not use this . Especially if your wanting to get pregnant in the next 5 years
I got the depo shot a few weeks ago and I haven't been the same person since. I am depressed 24/7. I cry all the time for no reason. I can't wait until it wears off so I don't have to deal with this anymore.
I had the injection for nearly a year and the biggest problem for me is how much it's decreased my sex drive. I first started noticing it 6 months into using it; not only was my sex drive lower than usual but sex was painful, I was really sensitive where I never was before. It took another six months for it to become so bad that I had to come off it. I've been back on the pill for 3 months now but the effects of the injection still haven't worn off: as well as a low sex drive, I've become so sensitive during sex that I can barely do it in most positions without it becoming too painful, I also have trouble getting wet which of course makes sex more painful. I have always had a very high sex drive, no problem getting wet and have been with my 28 year old boyfriend for two years now so not long enough to have had my sex drive drop off a cliff! And we're certainly not old enough. I really hope things return to normal soon and I wish GPs would let you know of this possible side effect, as I had no warning whatsoever. It's only after reading forums that I've realised I'm not the only one to suffer from this side effect. What's the point in being able to have sex if you don't want to ha
I started the Depo shot right around a year ago, and can't wait to switch to another birth control. The three months after my first shot were rough, but tolerable. I had periods at my regular time, but cramping, breakouts, and mood swings were terrible. From there, things have only continued to get worse. After my third shot, I've bled on and off for the last two months, it went from cramps to sharp pains in my lower stomach, constant headaches, and my sex drive is next to nothing. Depression and anxiety have both reared their ugly heads within the last 6 months as well. I was never an anxious person; always liked to find the brighter side in every situation. That me is virtually gone. The only plus side for me was that I've gained around 20 pounds since I've started. Being 5'8 and 105 is still WAY too slim for my liking, but at least the Depo helped me put on a nice amount of weight. That one positive definitely does not outweigh the negatives though; I never thought I would say I'm excited to get back on the pill.
Can't say anything bad about the injection, 2 1/2 years I've been on it since having my daughter, not one period no mood swings and little amount of weight gain.
Worst expierencr ever. Ive only had ons shot and ive been miserable my period has be on and off(still spotting when no period) and it kills your sex drive . I got sick too got very dizzy and had sweat out breaks. Will not advise anyone to get this shot
My experience with Depo-Provera was a nightmare. Sure, the stopping periods part was great... seemed to control my endometriosis cramps well enough, but no better than the pill. The biggest hassle was when I stopped the drug. I experienced migraines, nausea, and decreased sex drive. My periods took about a year to regulate, and my ovulation kits are still coming up negative. I have been off the drug for over 18 months now and I'm still struggling with decreased sex drive, anxiety, depression, and frequent nausea. I've also been breaking out in chin acne, which was never an issue before depo. AVOID this drug at all costs.
The first 3 months on Depo I had longer periods with only a day or so before my period would start again. However after speaking with. Y doctor I learned that bleeding in the first 3 months is typical because the body is ridding itself of the uterus lining & eggs that were already in flow for regular cycles. After the second shot no more periods as long as shot was continued. I've been on it off & on for the better part of 7 years. No weight gain or any other side effects. Highly recommended if you want to stop those pesky mensurations, but I'd suggest asking you primary care taker what they think is best for you, as they know your body best based off medical records.
I quess this is one of those 50/50 drugs. Happens to work for me like a dream (for over 15 years now!). No periods, no mood swings. I wouldn't change it for anything.
I love this drug. Before getting depo I was either "on the prowl" or I hated everything. The women in my family (I have 4 sisters) along with myself suffer from naturally high estrogen. This is a self-diagnosis based on symptoms of estrogen dominant PMS, a well as the fact that my 68 yo mother had never needed estrogen replacement therapy. The injection helps me stay even on my mood. I can think logically and I don't go through the cycles of urges for loving and urges to become a hermit. Best thing for high estrogen women.
I have officially been on the shot for 2 months, half of which I have been on a heavy-flow period. The first 2 weeks were light, but the last 4 have been heavy as heck. The day I received the shot, I had a massive headache, & I never get headaches. When I started with the light period, I experienced severe cramps. These cramps are the reason I got on the pill in the first place - never had a problem with cramps for the 10 years I was on the pill. The pill also clears up your skin, whereas the Depo shot makes you break out like you're 15 again. Some women are lucky & fall into the 50% category of those who stop having periods. I happen to fall into the other 50%, who seem to experience nothing BUT periods. Although it's easier to get a shot every 3 months than remember to take a pill everyday, I would MUCH prefer the "hassle" of the daily pill than the real hassle of the never-ending period.
I have read tons of terrible reviews on the depo but I absolutely love it! No pill, no patch, no problem! I have had minimal spotting this past week, nothing too serious. No (out of the ordinary) mood swings, I may have gained a couple pounds (but I am in college and eat like crap..) no headaches, or hunger issues. Love this form of birth control!!
I know that everybody is different, but I have experienced nothing but problems, I get my period only about one or 2 days if that every time I go to get my shot is the only time I tend to get it. I had gotten really bad depression after taking it and ended up getting hospitalized it was so bad, I have been non stop gaining weight and I even eat healthy and exercise. one year and one month I've been on it and I started at 145 and I'm almost 190 IT SUCKS! No matter how hard I try nothing is helping. I do not recommend this for anybody! Nobody should be put through this.
I had a hard time remembering to take my pill each day, and after getting pregnant decided this was the way to go. I had a long period, with a lot of spotting for the first 3 months. No miserable, but by no means great. A lot of ruined underwear! The biggest downside was the weight gain. I have gained 5 pounds with my first shot and another 5 with the second shot. Hope my body will even this all out.
I have been on Depo for a year and some months, I'm now switching because I have loss 15 pounds(which is not good considering I only weighed 121 when I started) my friends thought I was on crack :( the first two months I had a regular period none of that breakthrough bleeding that was warned. After those two periods I picked up 5 pounds and towards then end of the year is when my appetite vanished and I am now currently 115 pounds. I'm switching tomorrow....I just can't walk around looking like a stick and having mood swings on my kids and boyfriend.
Been taking depo now for 16 years and love it. No side effects, no periods.
I've been on depo for 12 years, 2 kids in between and no problems at all. No period, no weight gain, no nothing! I will continue to use this as long as I'm functioning.
I've been on the depo for s year and a half and have hated every bit of it. I'm looking into other options now. When I first started it I wouldn't bleed for 2 months, then rhe last month before my next shot I would bleed the whole 3rd month. It has now been 9 months and have not stopped bleeding!! I can't take it anymore. The mood swings are horrible, I gained 30 pounds, and got mild cystic acne I had to go to a dermatologist for. Idk if this is different for everybody but I hated it. The only nice thing is not having to remember to take a pill every day.
I started Depo about two months ago, after having been on the pill for 10 years. The appeal of Depo was the ability to forgo periods & not having to remember to take the pill every day. Although it is nice not to have to remember the pill regiment, the perpetual period is far from pleasant. I started on Christmas Day & have yet to stop. Today marks a full month at 31 days. Now I will say that it all depends on your body chemistry & how it responds to the shot. I've heard it may take up to 2 years for your body to adjust. Some of my friends stopped having periods completely. Some of them spotted the entirety of being on the pill. I fear I may fall into the latter of categories. My OB/GYN says to allow for more time for my body to even out on the shot. My next shot is due in a month. I fully expect to continue bleeding up until that point ( how am I not dead, BTW?! ) But if this perpetual period continues after Shot # 2, I'm out. I'd rather go back to the pill with the usual week-long period than bleed an eternity. If I could, I'd give the Depo 2 thumbs down. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, unless always being on your period doesn't bother you. Just my two cents. Ta
I was on the DEPO for at least 6 years and I didn't have any problems while I was on it. I didn't have a period nor did I have cramps within those 6+ years. Now that I'm off(been off for almost a year) I came on one time, no cramps, but I still feel fine. No complaints at all. Everybody is different so go what works for you.
Depo Provera was the worst birth control I have every taken. I have been on multiple birth controls including IUD's but unfortunately they all shifted. I started taking Depo and was miserable. Constant, I mean, CONSTANT worrying. I suffered from agoraphobia which began after my first injection I was unable to eat in restaurants, go to some public places, or stand in lines. I gained a lot of weight (I've been skinny my whole life). My hair started falling out. I have a bald spot towards the front of my hair. My hair comes out just by brushing it. But all these aside, my mood has been HORRIBLE. Constant fighting with people, constant sadness, helplessness, worry, depression, thoughts of suicide, everything. I could not wait to get off this shot it was ruining so many relationships with friends, family, and my boyfriend. Please do not take Depo. Take ANYTHING else, it completely ruined me. I am hoping my new birth control brings me back to my old self.
Two days after first shot i got these boils and pimples under my arm pit by the second shot most of my hair is falling out the pimples are from my armpit to my rib cage antibiotics aren't working to help. I've gained all my pregnancy weight back and seem to keep gaining. My skin is very itchy and dry, emotions are out of control and hard to control, I'm constantly spotting sex is not an option because my sex drive is gone and miserable. I've never had any of these problems prior to the shot. I was not warned of any of this and my doctor gave it to me day after i gave birth 4.5 months ago without any knowledge of the side effects. If you're new to the Depo i wouldn't put this poison in your body.
I was on depo for 2 1/2 years. No period..at all. I did not gain weight. My mood was normal. I really did like it! I received a shot in my arm or butt every 3 months. I will tell you that if you do wish to become pregnant after depo, it may take a long time. I was off of it for about the same time I was on it. My boyfriend and I had unprotected sex for an entire year. I had regular periods so I figured I was infertile...but I was wrong. After almost 3 years of not being on depo I had a healthy baby girl.
This drug should most definitely be taken off of the market. Not only did I experience horrible side effects from being injected, but in the months after my last injections I suffered an ectopic pregnancy as well as a miscarriage. I had a healthy son before ever being injected and now I may never be able to conceive again. Push to get this drug taken off of the market and push for woman to be informed of the side effects of what is being put into their bodies!
I started taking depo April 2016, I weighed 135 approximately. I took it for 3 months. I bled for 6 months non stop. Decided to take it in again in October and starTed bleeding again until thanksgiving. Also I have gained 25 pounds and can't lose it! I was 135 and now I am 160 and still gaining !
I personally would not recommend this shot to anyone. I have experienced several negative side effects. I've been on my period for 2 months, I have developed mild cystic acne, my body aches constantly, I am always tired and very nauseous and I have gained a lot of weight. I was very excited to not have a period anymore and thought it would help with my awful cramps, but it has done nothing except make things worse. I wish I had never taken it and I definitely never will again.
I absolutely love this form of birth control. I feel like the reason why this has gotten low reviews is because people do not review a drug they have success with. I had inconsistent spotting for the first 3 month period, and I was considering stopping it. However it is important that you take it in stride and stick with it for at least 3 shots, because I no longer get my period or any spotting and I will be going on a year in a few months. The only spotting I have is during the week that I am due for my shot, which is actually a perfect reminder. The only thing I would say that I do not like is I have less natural vaginal lubricant than I used to, but that just means I need a little more foreplay which isn't actually a bad thing. Other than that I love this convenient and easy to remember method. It might not work for people who do not have good insurance, because while the shot from the pharmacy is free (by law) the price of the appointment (a medical professional has to administer it), might be too much for some people whose insurance won't cover it.
when I first started this shot for a month I had some bleeding , by the third shot I completely stopped having periods, which meant I no longer had any cramps. One minor side effect I noticed is towards the end of the 3 months I get some acne . But other than that I love this shot. I read a lot of the reviews on this site and it seems a lot of people tried it and didn't have a great expirence, but don't knock it till you try it is all I can say.
I've been on the shot for about a year now! After the first shot, I did bleed quite a bit but my doctor told me that this was normal! After the 2nd shot, all the bleeding stopped completely! Every now and then between shots I spot a little but other than that, no bleeding!
**Everyone's experience is different** I have been on the shot for a little over a year now. I like the ease of just getting it once every 12 weeks (I am horrible at remembering to take pills every day) When I first got it yes, there was some irregular spotting and at times it would be heavier than other times but after about 6 months it totally stopped. As for my weight I have gained a few pounds but nothing drastic (I exercise and try to watch what I eat like I normally do... it's my fault if I eat whatever, dont exercise and gain weight...I'm not gonna blame it on the pills). I have also noticed my skin breaking out a little bit but it's only noticable to me. No mood swings for me, no hair loss yet nor headaches (besides me already having 1 or 2 migraines a month before I even started the shot). I take multivitamins and started taking calcium pills on a daily not just because bone density loss is a side effect from the shot but let's face reality... it's a side effect of life..getting older. You should be taking calcium pills regardless especially if you don't get it any other way. For now, I will stick with the shot until I feel or notice changes that worries me or that I am un
For the first week or so of taking this injection I was perfectly okay. A week or so later however, I started bleeding and it hasn't stopped for 6 months. I would not recommend this drug to anyone and I wish I had known the symptoms before I started it.
Ive been off and on depo since i was 18 and now im 21.What i mean is that i would sometimes love it but then hate it . My reasons for loving it was that it took care of pregnancy scares and it would make me feel more comftorble knowing Im on something. The reason i hated it was because I felt so tired all the time I had little energy .I did gain weight but no more than 10 lbs. My periods disappeared after the first year of taking depo.During the first year I spotted or had a long period. After the first year my mood began to change I felt so depressed .After all mood change is one of the side effect.Now as of my 3rd year off and on I feel pain in my bones during winter. I recommend this shot to those who worry more about pregnancy scares than loss of bone density loss of interest and weight gain.
I've had the Depo shot once, and since then, I have not had a single period or cramp. I've experienced only a tiny bit of spotting for one week out of the past three months. It does what it needs to do as far as cramps, but the side effects can be worse than you think. For the first month after the shot, my depression and my acne were worse than they have ever been. However, I would recommend this shot for someone in need of a birth control that they don't have to remember every day.
Just don't do it. It's awful. Wish I would have read these reviews before. -weight gain -cramping worse than I ever have had -spotting/ heavy bleeding for 2 weeks and counting -mood swings -back pain Just please don't do it.
after hearing a few of my friends talk about how much they loved the shot, I decided to give it a try. I loved the idea of not having to take a pill everyday & not having a period. I got the shot as a form of birth control, as well as to control my heavy bleeding and cramps. I got my first shot in Aug. 2015 and it started out great. My period stopped immediately, but then my mild acne escalated, I started spotting and it lasted for at least 6 weeks. I decided to give it another try and got my second shot in Nov. WORST MISTAKE EVER. Ever since then I've head terrible headaches, nonstop spotting, intense itching & odor down there, excruciating abdominal pain, cramps, bloating and constipation. I have also gained about 10 pounds. My moods are out of control, and every little thing irritates me. I have one more month until this shot is up, and I just hope it's out of my system quickly.
Everybody is different, however i personally would not recommend at all. Was extremely pleased to find out that depo shot was available as i needed a contraceptive that had no lactose (birth control pills) and no milk (condoms). It seemed perfect $6.10 with a health care card, every three months. I got my shot around October. I have bled non-stop ever since. It is extremely annoying, uncomfortable, inconvenient and expensive. Being on my period 24/7 for 3 months have made me extremely irritable, moody and easily provoked. Its not ideal if wanting as purely contraceptive because I have been bleeding non-stop I can only have intercourse when it is extremely light which is highly irritating. Everyone reacts differently, however if you react the same as i did, you have to ride it out for the full 3 months.
All the bad reviews are true, I went into the depo shot optimistically thinking I'd have a good experience with it.. About a month in the spotting started, I'm now on 2 weeks straight of spotting. Depression symptoms becoming more and more apparent. I am not myself.. I'm usually a happy person known for laughing loudly regularly.. Now I am quiet and antisocial. Otherwise I'm normal... These 2 side effects alone though are terrible and not worth it. Will not be taking another shot. I wish I had taken online reviews more seriously when I was researching this method of birth control.
I have been on the depo shot for 2 years now and I'm very egered to get off of it. Everyone is diffrent and there are risks and side affects to any kind of birth control. I this is based off of my experience and why I am chosing to do something else. I love the fact that this is so easy to take and you do t have to worry about it for 3 months. I love that I don't have a monthly period! It took about 2 rounds of shots for that to happen. There are definitely a lot of positives to the depo. It also. Averages out to the same price as the pill for 3 months if you pay out of pocket. As with seriously almost every hormonal birth control there is the risk of weight gain, breakouts, head aches and so on. I gained some weight but was easily lost and I started breaking out and countinue to. Those are minimal and normal. The major problems that have drove me to stop the depo are mood swings and hair loss. Near the end of my shot I have awful mood swings and it's embarrassing. They highly encourage you to take calcium supplements (or the should be telling) because the eats at your bone density. It gets worse the longer you're on the shot. Within the last 6 months I have noticed my hair thinnin
Horrible, I used to take this for four years! Around the 3rd year I was getting horrible pains in my lower stomach area, turns out, I had ovarian cysts, since the shot changed all my hormones it also gave me ovarian cysts, which are super painful when having sex too. I got off of it for 2 years then just recently got back on it, now I've been bleeding for 4weeks straight, very achey, and exhausted!
Well I wanted this shot because I was told that it would stop my periods. That was false. I have been on my period for over 3 weeks now. I actually made an appointment with my Dr because I am extremely tired, overly weak and lightheaded (anemic) because I have lost so much blood during my period. I would not recommend this shot for anyone wanting it just to stop periods. Does not work for me.
I've been on depo for a little over a year and since I've been on it I have not had a period. I get my shots on time like I'm supposed to and suffer no side effects. I love this form of birth control!! It's easy and I dnt have to worry about it daily. Just set my alarm the week before my next shot and schedule an appt. I highly recommend this type of birth control. Best part, no period!!
I've been on this for 3 years, also been bleeding for 3 years not ideal obviously in my opinion nothing really works well, it's all just trial an error.
I've been on depo-provera for the past 3-4 years. It was the option I chose as I wanted a birth control but was bad about taking the pill, and also to control my periods. I will say it can take a while to stop the periods, and everyone is different. It took a few months for mine to stop and I only had problems with bleeding if I was late on getting my shot. If that was not the case, my gynecologist prescribed me estrogen pills to take when I bled and it would stop within a day or two. The birth control is VERY effective. I have experienced side effects, but they come and go. More recently I have experienced breast tenderness, headaches, and some mood swings. Everyone is different, but the side effects for me come and go. I have very much enjoyed the shot although I have heard horror stories of women not being able to get pregnant after the shot... Which consultation with my gynecologist eased my worries. It is something to take very seriously when considering as the side effects vary in all people.
I see that there are a crazy amount of bad reviews on the depo-provera, I have now been on this form of birth control for 4 years, starting at age 14 and it is so convient. I have not had a single period, or I haven't spotted since my first shot and that in itself is amazing to me. Clearly the birth control is effective because I have yet to get pregnant. I am generally a short tempered person and I wouldn't say that the birth control made that any better or worse. A lot of people complain about weight gain, yes this birth control will make you crave food, but it is your choice if you consume it or not. The birth control it's self doesn't make you gain weight. Also when your doctor puts you on any form of birth control they should have a long conversation about side effects with you, the most common side effect of this birth control is loss of bone mass, this is why your doctor will probably suggest that you take vitamin c supplements. I started taking vitamin c, a year after getting on the shot and have had no loss in bone mass, no pain in my bones, or no broken bones. Be responsible when taking any form of medicine and know the risk.
I certainly don't have to worry about becoming pregnant since having the shot because I have been on my period for several weeks now with no signs of it stopping anytime soon! I decided to have the shot (around 7 weeks postpartum) because I'm not too good with remembering to take pills. I started my first period after my pregnancy after receiving the shot. It started off extremely light and I thought I was just spotting. A few days later it was heavy, dark, clotty and very mucousy. It's been that way ever since. I'm getting cramps on and off with it, my face is breaking out, I'm always hungry now and I don't go a day without having an awful headache. I had high hopes for the depo shot, but it's been a huge let down. The convenience of it is great, but if you're going on this for birth control purposes you won't even have the opportunity to have sex due to having a constant period. If you are thinking about getting the shot, I would advise you not to. Even after the 3 month period that it's supposed to work, symptoms may continue to occur for up to 15 weeks! Some women have had issues for over a year after receiving their last shot! I only had one shot, and it will certainly be my l
I changed to Depo - Provera as I was terrible at remembering to take my combined pill. There's a lot of bad reviews on depo but I'm due my second injection and I'm never going back to the pill. After a month of receiving the injection my boobs went back to their normal size (they swelled and were incredibly painful on the pill) and I lost all the weight I gained. My moods have gone back to normal (I was so hormonal on the pill) and I feel a lot more relaxed, even my libido has increased. The shot isn't for everyone, but after trying 4 different combined pills and every one having terrible side effects, this was definitely a decision I'm glad I made!
Please do not take this injection. I decided to change from the pill to depo provera and it was such a big mistake. I've had loads of side effects but the mains ones are I gained over a stone - no change to diet or excercise Suffered from mood swings and anxiety which I've never had before - and still am nearly a year on from stopping Also no signs of a period. It has well and truly messed my hormones up and made me a different person. I feel like I'm going through puberty all over again - I understand there will be a different effect on others however I would say it's not worth the gamble. I wish someone had warned me of all the side effects before I started taking this.
I have been on Depo since i was 15 i am 20 now and my side effects started when i was 17. That year my hair fell out and was really hard to grow back,My appetite was the same.18 i gained alot of weight and then my hair start growing back,Very moody and weird cravings.19 i would get tired really quick just by going up and down some stairs and bones felt like they were weak.20 nothing has change besides my hair is not growing and im certain that i might have bone problems due to the pain in my right arm only when its reaching for a cup of water or holding a game system controller.I would not refer this to no one if there plan on taking Depo for over 2 years.
If you want menopause this would be good for you
At the age of 16 I got depo in order to regulate my heavy period as well as painful cramps. Depo did the exact opposite causing excruciating cramps but weirdly less bleeding but the period was in blood clot form or very dark thick discharge that itches very badly! I was on my period for nine months STRAIGHT! Yes everyday for 9 months I bled ! I tried depo again in 2015 after the birth of my child. At first it seemed fine and I didn't have a period for 2 months. However the dark thick discharge started again was very itchy and has continued everyday for 2 months straight. My cramps are horrible now and heavy bleeding can start at any minute. I have not been feeling well since I've gotten the shot. Random migraines, always nauseous. Appetite is definitely not the same!
I used depo-provera for two years and I don't recomend here is what happened after I stop using it : my acne went away black heads on my nose started to come out impossible before I lost weight immediately to pre baby weight 119 increased memory no more mood swings depression went away increase libido it took 4 years but now periods are regular pot belly disappeared don't look always puffy anymore Depo really messes your bones my vitamin D intake is low should be 30 only at 14. this drug is easy and convenient prevents pregnancy if you don't miss a shot or mess up the schedule but you don't realize what it does to you I thought all these changes in my body were from pregnancy but no it was the Depo-Provera
Do NOT take depo. I would not recommend it to anyone. Everybody's experience is different, but it made me go CRAZY. I didn't get pregnant, but I have horrible mood swings. I've never had anxiety before, but now I'm dealing with it. I've always been very laid back, I've always quickly gotten over things, but now I want to punch someone in the face for taping their fingers have think about it all day. My mood swings are crazy, I cry for no reason. I get anxious for no reason. I worry so much. I have a rash (I think its caused by depo Im not sure though). It got worse with each shot. At first, I was okay I thought I just needed some sleep. With each shot it got worse and I started to think I had developed anxiety so I tried to treat it as anxiety but it just wouldn't go away.I thought I was crazy. It's only gotten worse and I've now done some research on depo making women go crazy and there's a lot of other women reporting the same symptoms. It's a 3month commitment too! Now I just have to wait it out until it gets out of my system, which could take up to a year to completely go away. I would just steer clear completely.
I started taking the depo shot about 3 months ago and the first day I got it I almost passed out a couple hours later. it made me extremely dizzy and everything was blurry. it eventually went away and I was fine. Besides that it has been great for me. I take it for birth control and it so much easier than taking the pill! and i stopped getting my period the first day I got it and I haven't had one since!
Depo shot: I want to start of by saying that I know birth control affects everyone differently. But I also feel that many girls aren't truly warned about the side affects. Before receiving the 3 month depo shot I had to sign a form for bone loss. But I did not have to sign a form about all the side effects that plagued me while on this shot, and for months after. An hour after receiving the depot shot I experienced my first panic attack. Extreme fear, nausea, choking, sweating all out of nowhere. Then it happened again several hours later. I took the shot only once. It's been six months since I received the shot and I'm now having another panic attack. No one actually tells you that the depot shot remains in your system for up to 18 months. This doesn't even come close to the worst of it. A month after my depo shot I started my period. My period went from July to October NONSTOP. Continual flow, every day, for five months. It finally stopped when I ate a bunch of fresh ground flax seeds (they have estrogen in them, which helps repair uterine lining - depo is progesterone which thins the uterine lining). I only received one shot and my life has been affected for six months and
I have been on the depo shot for about a year, and I've had no problems. It made me a little more emotional and that's it. I love it. I haven't had a period in about 8 months. I'm glad I don't have to worry about becoming pregnant.
Started taking depo 2 years ago. For the first few months, there was a lot of irregular light bleeding, and for the next year or so, I would spot for a couple weeks at a time. It was annoying, but it didn't bother me too much. After being on it 2 years I have no period or bleeding at all. For the first few months after the shot, yes, you're going to have irregular and maybe heavy bleeding. But stick with it, it gets better! I love not having to buy tampons or pads at all anymore. And I know I'm protected
You might feel alright the first cuople years BUT YOUR DUMB IF YOU GET IT DO NOT GET THE SHOT! I have been on the shot for atleast 5 years now and my bones are deteireating, constant swelling in both my legs and hands. Messed up my vision for life and also gave my assist on both my ovaries so cant have kids!
I've been on the shot for about a year now. I can't take birth control with estrogen and I would always forget my pill, so this seemed like the next best option. I got my first shot in Feb 2015, and I had very light bleeding for about two weeks a month later, but after that I've only had light spotting here and there. I actually lost weight when I started this, but I also started an antidepressant at the time so I'm not sure if that caused me to lose weight. Also, this didn't make me feel crazy or hormonal like some of the pills I tried did. The only negative side effect I've had is that I've had an increase in acne (something I've struggled with all my life), but it is manageable with treatment. Just be cautious if you are prone to breakouts. Otherwise, I love the shot!
I first had this due to heavy periods and suffering horrendous PMT, I have had no problems what so ever, I do not suffer any symptoms of PMT, my periods have stopped and I couldn't be happier, I gained a little weight but can live with that rather than the PMT me and my husband suffered. I am concerned as at 47 years old they would like me to consider other forms of contraceptive and I do not wish to go back down the same old road of heavy periods and irrational feelings
I was on depo for five years. I did not experience the weight gain or depression. I've never wanted biological children. So the possibility of sterility didn't bother me either. Out of all the various birth controls I have taken, which is more than I can keep track of at this point, it was the best one that worked for me. I am actually looking to get back on it again after being off of it for six years. Inevitably it's whatever works best for your body when it comes to birth control. Every body is different.
Was on the depo shot roughly 2 years. Started taking it around august 2013 because i was terrible with my pills and they made me feel sick all the time. I have extremely heavy periods and endometriosis and birth control helps it so i had to find a different option. Pretty much the depo shot the first year was terrible. The first shot i recieved gaveme excruciating pain in my legs i screamed for hours because it hurt so bad if anything, even a breeze, touched my legs. That lasted about 24 hours. The next day and up until 8 months later i had terrible headaches, my bones hurt sooo bad and i lost 3 teeth with the first 3 months. Yes! My teeth broke so easily and turned to powder. I was already taking calcium pills so i wasnt sure why my teeth were breaking and bones were hurting. I did have my period about 80% of the whoke 8 months. I got off because i couldnt take the headaches anymore and i was tired of bleeding all the time. I went bk on the pill from april 2014 till june until i remembered how miserable pills are. Then again august 2014 i went back on the depo and i everything was wonderful. All of my symptoms disappeared. I had maybe 2 periods total until i got off in it in june
If you are thinking about going on Depo, DO NOT DO IT. I am 25 and have been on birth control since I was 18. I was always on the pill, but I decided I didn't want to have my period anymore since I travel so much for work. I thought since I travel so much, it was also be great if I didn't have to remember to take a pill every day, so my doctor recommended depo. I don't even think this thing should be allowed on the market after my experience with it, and reading others experiences. No doctor should recommend such a thing that can completely mess up your body. I gained 20 pounds in 6 months. I have always been around 130lbs my entire life, now I am about 152. In 6 months. I feel absolutely disgusting and bloated all the time and I eat very healthy. I have migraines and cramps. Sex hurts insanely bad, sometimes I have to put ice on after sex because it is burning so bad, feels like tiny paper cuts. My doctor said this is a common side effect of women on depo, because you don't have a very thin uterine lining now and basically no estrogen. It is HORRIBLE. I've also never had acne problems my whole life, now I have acne all over my back and have actual scars on my face from pimples I'v
Terrible experience. Friends of mine said their experience was great for lessening menstrual symptoms and bleeding. Attempting to lessen my menstrual symptoms I set up an appointment for depo. Depo Provera was horrible. I experienced heavy bleeding continuously, weight gain, acne, irritability and crying.
i am 15 years old and started taking depo provera at the beginning of the school year. at first I didn't bleed for a month and after my bleeding occurred again it went on for 3 months non stop bleeding. after my second shot they said my bleeding should stop but 2 weeks later it started again and has yet to stop but now i have to wait 2 more months to switch. since the second shot ive been very moody. I want to cry all the time for no reason and I have suicidal thoughts, i also get very angry and its very annoying constantly having to buy things for your period im usually a very very happy person but the depo provera shot has definitely flipped my life upside down
I will not recommended to anyone. I try it after my firts son 2006 and gain all the pregnacy weight back. I go to the gym try to have a clean diet and work my heart and lose no more than 10 pounds and gain everything back if i stop going to the gym for a couple of week. Hate how it make me feel 9 years ago and the problem i still got. Not worth it
The Depo-Provera shot looked like the easiest thing for me to do. I got the shot about 11.5 weeks ago. For about 2/3rds of the time on the shot, I spotted. The a few weeks ago I started crying all the time (over REALLY stupid stuff), being depressed at times, and getting angry really easily. I feel like killing myself when i'm crying or angry. I also got a huge amount of unnecessary acne on my cheeks. I don't recommend this AT ALL.
I switched from the pill to depo after being diagnosed as bipolar. Implants were not an option as I'd had merina that has caused serious issues and nexplanon caused bad side effects as well. I was horrible at remembering to take my pill like I should and didn't want to risk a pregnant on the medicine I was taking. The first 5 or 6 weeks I bled but was told to expect that from changing the type I was on. Since then I've had very light periods on schedule every month. My moods have actually been not as bad (but I am on mood stabilizers as it is), and I don't have any real side effects. For a couple days after my shot I do get a little nauseous and have some dizzy spells though. Other than that I'm very happy with the shot. I will say I had used this previously as a teenager and did have a lot of issues with bleeding, but luckily after having 2 kids and being older I thankfully don't have this issue.
I took the depo provera shot in June at planned parenthood to prevent pregnancy. the shot is really small, painless and easy and it does last 3 months so it seemed like a really simple choice of birth control. however, after just a day of being on the shot, I completely changed, and every one I knew could tell I wasn't myself. I had severe mood swings from being extremely happy to wanting to kill myself. I would cry randomly and have irrational thoughts and moods. I had absolutely no appetite and I couldn't sleep at all. I would wake up in the middle of the night from nightmares and wouldn't be able to go to sleep again because I would have constant chatter in my head. I have never in my life had sleeping and eating issues. I lost 10 pounds in the 3 months of being on the shot. I lost all motivation and happiness, I would lay in bed all day extremely depressed. I even had heat flashes. the shot effected me completely, therefore effecting my relationship with my friends and boyfriend. I felt insane. I ended up at two mental hospitals because I went absolutely crazy and needed some kind of help. I had extreme anxiety and paranoia, I would have constant negative and overthinking thoug
I did not get the depo shot when I was suppose to. I was pregnant when I got it and it kept my baby from developing. I got one shot and will never get any birth control ever again. I gained 40 pounds from it in three months. I've got stretch marks everywhere. I've never hated myself more than I do now. I would not recommend the depo to anyone.
I took this because I have fibroids and heavy bleeding. My dr recommended I try a form of birth control. After 14 days of getting the shot, I started bleeding. Been bleeding for almost 3 months. Dr prescribed me medroxyprogesterone to stop the bleeding. My concern is the high amount of provera I was putting in my body. Don't get this shot, it's a nightmare.
I had a shot of Depo-Provera to help with endometriosis and mild depression. Within 3 days I was a totally different person. I cried about everything. Told my husband I thought I should leave him. Had all kinds of irrational thoughts, and went into a severe depression. I slept all the time and would not eat. My husband has told me he was terrified...he thought that he had lost me... that I would never be "me" again. I had to wait out the time until the drug finally left my body. Then had to work with my doctors to try to get the depression under control. I would think long and hard about taking this medication. It was an absolute nightmare.
DO NOT RECOMMEND!! This shot has destroyed my life. I've only taken it twice now, the first time was in the hospital after the birth of my daughter. First side effect I noticed was no period, and when I did have one it was very light. Second side effect I noticed was feeling sad and depressed. I just chalked it up to after pregnancy hormones. Now after my second shot I've had sever symptoms! #1 is I'm EXTREMELY paranoid, depressed, anxious and moody. One minute I'll be happy and the next, I'll be raging. I feel like I'm loosing my mind! It's completely hurt my marriage and personal life. No sex drive AT ALL. Lastly, I've been non stop spotting / bleeding for the last 3 weeks straight! This Shot will turn you're life upside down. I won't be taking ANYTHING for a while after this. Using Only condoms.
I got pregnant while on it along with a couple of my friends I was doing everything correctly it just didn't work
I've been on Depo-Provera for about a year and a half now. Due to migraines with aura (increased blood clot/stroke risk), Depo was one of my few options. I haven't had a period since the first shot, and haven't experienced any spotting or cramping. The best part: my migraines have been drastically reduced! Depo isn't for everyone, but it has definitely been a life saver for me!
Never would recommend this for any one kids I was on when 17 now it screw up my life unable have kids and weight gain alot .. now I have brain tumor....depression big time...
A few of my friends suggested this, raving about very few, light periods that come right before they got their next shot. However, after 9 months of nearly continuous bleeding, I just couldn't do it anymore. I would have weeks of spotting, heavy enough to use a light tampon everyday. It would stop, sometimes for two weeks, but then I'd have another month of a light period. I know there's an adjustment time, but after 9 months, I wasn't willing to try again, especially after I read more reviews. This is a great option for some people, and many of the people I know with this haven't had a problem, but it is definitely not for me. I switched to the pill, and a month in, I'm loving it.
I have had a great experience with the Depo Shot, the day after I got it I stopped having a period all together. I have had zero side effects and have been using it for about a year. Would highly recommend to anyone looking for an easy form of birth control.
I mean I'm not pregnant so it worked but I'm always cramping and bleeding which is part of the reason why I started taking birth control. Also I'm extremely moody and the bleeding if unpredictable so I can't wear certain underwear. The cramps are so painful, worse than normal period cramps. I hate it I can't wait to get off of it.
Terribleness. If you have any issues with depression/anxiety or moodiness do not do this to yourself. Will throw you into a bad spiral not worth it.
I'm 23 years old. I just started the Depo shot 2 weeks ago. I started it the second day after my period was over. So far I've had mild camps one day it was pretty bad after having sex. My sex drive increased extremely the first week. My emotions!!! Don't even get me started. I was really emotional the second week. And I've had a ton of wet clear discharge! And I can smell myself like I knelt down and I was like oh my gosh!! It's not a bad smell but it's strong!! And I thought blood was coming out, like maybe it made me start my period again or something? I checked myself and it was just clear discharge! I'm not sure about this birth control yet? Yesterday and today I've been fine. No complaints really. So maybe in a couple months ill post again.
A+ would totally recommend!!!! Weight gain is possible but if you exercise regularly and eat right this is no problem. Great form of birth control.
This drug had caused me to gain 30 POUNDS in less than 8 months!!! I am miserable. I run/go to the gym regularly and yet I have still gained so much weight! My periods did stop as soon as I got the shot, that was the only plus. Depo Provera is the worst birth control I've ever been on. I am changing my birth control this coming Sunday.. Now I have to start another weight loss journey.
bled for nearly 5 months straight. got rosacea a few DAYS after depo provera. still treating the rosacea. i lost weight because it made me super depressed so i experienced no weight gain. lots of hair loss, thankfully it has finally stopped after a couple of months
I'm currently on the depo shot. I had my baby in August and started the shot in Mid September. Since then I have been bleeding non stop everyday. (That's s lot of sanitary products to keep purchasing.) I also gained weight and it looks like I'm pregnant again. I was losing the pregnancy weight before taking the shot. So far I gained 10lbs. You have no sex lids because your constantly spotting and bleeding. I WOULD NOT recommend this method!!
In one year I gained 20 pounds and have been crazy emotional. Worsened my depression and anxiety. I'm not pregnant which is good but now no matter if I diet or work out the weight won't come off. Done gaining weight and stretch marks, trying to find a new birth control.
Was on depo for about a year and had an absolutely awful time on it. I had heart arrhythmia, depression, intense anxiety, constant spotting and would often get migraines. I honestly do not recommend it to anyone. I had a very difficult time on it. It took about 6 months for my periods to regulate again after being off of it. I understand some side affects are common, but these were much worse. It's much better to be safe than sorry. Please consider your options when choosing birth control instead of jumping right into depo-provera
One shot has me bleeding for two months, depressed, increased sex drive(only good thing), irritable, first I was super hungry now everything I eat makes me sick. It messes up your body.
I absolutely love the shot. I am now 26 years old. I have been on the shot for 7years now and I have had no side effects. In the beginning I had random spotting that was unpredictable but I rather have that then to have a full blown period. After being on the shot for about several months, I no longer saw a period. I have not had a period in about 6 years and I can not say I miss it at all. I never had a decreased sex drive, no depression, no anxiety. I had a slight weight gain but nothing abnormal. I would recommend to anyone.
Hi, I'm 18 years old. I used to take a number of different birth control pills a couple years ago because I had extremely bad cramps and bleeding during my period, making me stay bedrest for 4 out of my 7 day period. They tried different birth control pills because every time my gynecologist up'd the dose, it wouldn't work. Finally, I stopped taking them all together. it's been about 3-4 years and I recently visited a new gynecologist who recommended Depo provera, then the insertion if this didn't work. I figured, why not? I got the shot in my butt and it was fine. She prescribed me 25mg of zophran because I was already depressed and suffered from anxiety, and the shot could affect that she told me. It's only been 2 weeks since my shot, but i've experienced multiple painful cramps in my lower belly area and I haven't been taking my Zophran, and i do notice a increase in my depression.
I just had my 3rd shot. My first shot was may 10 and i had spotting for 10.5 weeks. The only reason i got the second shot it aug was because the spotting stopped. After the second shot i had no spotting/ bleeding for 7 weeks. Then the spotting came back for about 2.5 weeks then stopped. And i got my 3rd shot and so far m9 bleeding/spotting. My sex drive did not decrease, i have no mood swings, my acne remained the same, however i did gain 15lbs after the second shot. This is a hormone and works different in each person. I say try it.
In 2006 my future husband and I had a few scares with the pull out method so I went to my family planning to discuss options. I was put on the shot. No weight gain, periods, or side effects. I stayed on the shot for 5 years when a doctor yelled at me for being on it for so long. So I switched to the pills. Gained 50 pounds overnight and periods put me in horrible pain. After 1.5 years and different types of pills I went back to the shot. Best decision I have ever made. So a total of 8 years on the shot and the only thing I can complain about is the scar tissue build up in my arms. Its causing more than normal pain when I've been injected. Like every medications everyone reacts differently. For me I love it and am scared to try anything else.
Because I am at risk for blood clots, my doc and I thought that I should try the depo shot. The first month was great! Everything was peachy keen. The next 6 months however, we're pretty horrible. I bled the ENTIRE time. Like full on, tampon in 24/7, period mode for 6 months. Even a month after I was due for the next shot, I kept bleeding. My doc finally ran some blood tests and felt comfortable enough to give me low dose estrogen birth control. It only took one week on the pill to end my nightmare. I finally have my normal vag back!!!
Don't take the depo shot!!!! I received a shot on 10-10-2014. One shot has made my life a living hell. I'm barely spotting now and the smell is awful and embarrassing. MASSIVE hair loss, anxiety, irritability, depression, dizziness and head rushes, moodiness and acne. I never had problems with acne now I've got zits on my face constantly. I can't even bend over to tie my shoe without a horrible head rush that floors me. There's also unbearable nausea pretty much every day of the week. I used to have long beautiful hair, now it falls out in clumps and I can't even use scuncii hair ties, they fall right out. A small basic hair clip will hold all of my hair now. Not to mention i get upset over the smallest things or cry for no reason, talk about an emotional rollercoaster. It also gave dark patches around my eyes. I'm scared to think about what my period will be like when it does come back. Worst thing I could have done, and for what convenience? I was on the pillow for 16 years with no problems. This drug should not be on the market. Please don't take this drug, I'd hate to have any more women suffer what I am feeling now.
Taking this shot was the absolute worst decision I have ever made!!!! I was diagnosed with endo when I was 17 years old and have struggled with irregular periods, migranes, gut wrenching painful periods, painful sex, cramping constantly, and I have been on 9 different oral birth controls. After being on so many my dr thought I should give depo a try. As I got older my periods were more painful and affected my everyday life. The first month after taking the shot I felt great! Then the spotting started (which seemed manageable) but then I would have a full blown period. I never knew what I was going to get that day when I woke up. So frustrating. I became extremely moody and paranoid. I honestly felt crazy. Aside from all of that, the worst thing of all happened. ACNE!!!! I had hormonal breakouts prior to taking this shot. About 3 weeks before getting my next shot (when the spotting and bleeding started) the acne started up and with vengeance. I broke out on my back and chest, which I never had before, and all over my face. Deep cystic acne. Since then I have been to the dermatologist twice and have been on two different meds to help clear my skin. I have a long journey ahead. I do
I would NOT recommend this method of birth control. I was on it for 3-4 years for birth control and never had a period. As great as that sounds it terrified me. My Dr didn't tell me that i should only ever stay on it for two years tops. It made me gain weight, problems with my bones, amd caused problems with my breasts. After stopping I didn't get my period for a year and three months. When it did come back it was like my body was in payback mode. The WORST period ever. I'm going to the dr to make sure i don't habe cysts or.any type of cancer.
I've been on the shot for about 2 years. It was great at first! And it's still pretty good. The only issues I have with it is sometimes I will go MONTHS bleeding everyday non stop. And I wanted the shot so I wouldn't have periods. I've also gained a good bit of weight from it. And I still get cramps every now and then. It's effective for not wanting to get pregnant but for certain people the side effects suck.
I used the Depo shot perhaps a year. At first it was awesome! No need to remember to take a pill, lighter if any periods....it was great! My first negative side effect was the irregular bleeding and random spotting. I realized not only did I prefer to have a period each month and KNOW I wasn't pregnant, but at least with a period each month you could wear a pad and be prepared.... Not staining you nice underwear with random bleeding. Then there was the mood swings 2-3 weeks before I was due another shot. I mentioned this to my healthcare provider and we agreed to bring the shot forward a week get the hormone level back up sooner to try and minimiz the moodiness. However the worst and almost devastating side effect was lack of srx drive! It was obvious at first.. We just had a baby etc. But nearly a year later I didn't even want my husband to touch me and it was hurting our relationship. It took ages for me to figure out what the problem was.. I still loved and desired my husband... But didn't want him near me. For months we tried to talk through it and try different things to help. Nothing did. Then Eureka! The shot! I did some research and found that decreased sex can be a
Best thing since sliced bread. Been on it for 37 years, initially for contraception, now to avoid menopause symptoms. Told ages ago I probably wouldn't notice menopause, still haven't and I am 52, I'll keep on it for a bit yet until I can be sure.... No side effects, heard all the stories but never met anyone that took it as long as me, I think it's just blamed for things without proof.
DON NOT TAKE THIS SHOT! I only took this shot 2x and it has been horrible! The first time I took it I would not stop bleeding for 3 months straight . the second time I took it I never got my period again . I have been off the shot for 6 months now and I still have no period . the mood swings are horrible and sex drive goes down A LOT! I also got acne and depression. I would not recommend this to anyone because there have been times woman were not able to ever get pregnant again after taking depo provera.
I had the shot once and couldn't stop bleeding so my doctor told me to take it again and it would stop. it didn't. I've also been depressed since I started depo. at least I didn't get pregnant because I can never have sex thanks to ALL THIS NONSTOP BLEEDING
Worst thing ever. Ever since I took this shot my life has turned upside down. I've been extremely depressed. Severe anxiety, I have developed a stomach ulcer from so much stress and constant nausea. I'm so moody my bf is just sick of it and so am I. It sucked the good out of my life. Everyone is different because I've lost 7 pounds while on the shot making me extremely underweight. I hate it and I'm never taking it again. Oh yea and I got acne which I've never had before. I'd rather risk pregnancy.
I started on the depo shot almost a year ago and have loved it. I have had little to no side effects. I haven't gained any weight, I actually lost 4 pounds since being on it, although my doctor said I was her only patient who lost instead of gained weight. I have light spotting for 4-5 days at random times, with some cramps and breakouts associated with it. But, it is nothing intolerable, I used to have horrible cramps to the point that I had to miss school and work. The only downside is my doctor said it is recommended to get off the shot after two years due to potential bone density loss. Overall I would recommend it, no real periods or stress of being pregnant while on the depo shot.
I started taking the depo shot about two-three years ago. At first, I loved it because it stopped my periods but then I started being very moody, and would flip out of nowhere. Like, the littlest things would make me so mad, I started having severe cramps with the shot and could never get comfortable. I would stay sick for days after getting the shot, I began to hate it. Oh, and the weight gain was HORRIBLE. I've been off the depo for about a year now and I feel great. I've lost some weight, and I've been happier, and just so much better. I'm not trying to tell anyone what to do, I just want people to understand that the depo isn't all its made out to be. So, just please be careful in what you choose.
I've been on depo-provera for a long period of time now. I haven't had any pregnancies since I've been on so that's great . But, the side effects are killing my slowly but surely I'm emotional and moody 100% of the time. Super low sex drive to the point where I feel I would live happy without sex. Last but not least have fell into a deep depression.
I have been on depo-provera for over 5 years, and have had such great success with it that my roommate began using it also. I have never had any side effects that I would chalk up to being the fault of this drug alone. I live an extremely physically and emotionally healthy life-style, which I do believe has contributed to my success on this birth control. I feel women forget that this is a hormone that you are putting in your body, and if not emotionally stable or physically well prior, the hormonal changes can do significantly more harm than good. I have not had a period for five years, and depo has allowed me to consistently train for marathons without a period interfering. Finally, it is definitely the best method for pregnancy prevention for my life-style.
I started Depo Provera at the end of July 2015. I had minor sympthoms in the first two weeks (increase in cravings, low sex drive, ect.) I'm currently 2 months in and i've had bad nausea as well as low appetite. I started spotting and it's very random. I gained about 5-8lbs so far and I have a very random sex drive now. This is my first injection.
I made this decision to go on Depo for birth control. I have never had any other form of birth control before. After getting my first shot in February, my doctor did not tell me much except I wouldn't have a period. After the first month, I never had a period. Then in late March I got my period and it lasted for about 30 days, being EXTREMELY heavy... Heavier than normal and sometimes the blood would be darker than usual. When I went in for my next shot I discussed this over with my doctor and she told me it may be a few months or even a year before my body adjusts to the shot and stop periods. Also, she said a change in my period (aka it being heavier and longer) is normal. I have gone back for the shot a few times and my period still comes once a month and lasts for a long time. However, I have been EXTREMELY moody and crying constantly at the drop of a hat. I am re-considering the Depo shot and may switch over to the pill. This shot works differently for everyone and I recommend trying the pill first before choosing the shot.
I started taking depo 2 1/2 years ago. I was injected immediately after giving birth. I bled for 2 months straight. However, thats how long i bleed after giving birth. After the 2 months i did not bleed for 2 years. I spotted once jn a blue moon for a day or so. But once i missed my shot, i hadnt had it for 3 months i bled for almost 1 month. Then i got my shot again & the bleeding stopped. I started bleeding again ive been bleeding about 11 days. I know its only because its getting back in my system. I love ny choice of birth control. I havent had any weight gain. I actually look better than before i had kids. My hair is nice & healthy & i never break out. The doctor said to take ibuprophen 2 xs a day to let the bleeding stop. & once it stops ill only spot like i did before. My only regret is stopping then starting again because now i finally have a period. But other than that depo works great for me. Keep in mind everyone has different symptoms therefore you can never base the next persons on yours. We all have different bodies & are different.
I am 21 years old and had decided to get the shot. I am 4 months in and very happy with my decision. The frost month I did have spotting, very light however annoying. When it's time for you to have your period, you have no bleeding just slight cramping. My periods have completely subsided (which I'm very happy cause I had HEAVY cycles). I recommend this type of birth control if your a bad pill taker or if you want a long lasting borth control. Keep in mind everyone has different side effects...
NEVER HAVE THE DEPO SHOT! AFTER MY FIRST SHOT I BLED CONSTANTLY FOR 6 MONTHS STRAIGHT! (DEFEATS THE OBJECT OF GETTING IT REALLY) DIDN'T GO BACK FOR THE SECOND INJECTION BUT STILL BLED FOR SO LONG. HAD TO START THE PILL TO REGULATE IT AND THE PILL FOR ME IS GREAT, ALTHOUGH YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER TO TAKE IT. i ALSO EXPERIENCED DEPRESSION AND VERY BAD MOOD SWINGS SOMETIMES CRYING UNCONTROLLABLY FOR NO REASON- NOT HELPED BY THE FACT MY BOYFRIEND BROKE UP WITH ME DURING ALL OF THIS. STAY AWAY FROM THE DEPO SHOT.
Depo made me bleed nonstop the whole time i used it. I stopped using it after just a few shots and i immediately became pregnant only to miscarry. Afterwards I did not have a period for over one year. then suddenly i began having "bleeding spells" for mos. at a time. I ended up having six D&Cs as well as six blood transfusions in this five yr. period after miscarrying frm the depo. Doctors were bafffeled and continued to throw birth control at the prob even though i tried to tell them that was the root of the issue...Docs coudlnt figure out why a 20 yr old girl would suddenly stop ovulating and begin Bleeding profusely (not frm periods either) but stop menstrating...eventually i developed fibroids and endometreosis but the docs just kept scraping me out and tranfusing me it wasnt until i developed a tumor on my ovary the size of a softball that i was taken to James Cancer Center and given a total hysteroctomy at the age of 23 that the bleeding nightmare stopped....The docotrs were so confused during this five-six year period they couldnt figure out why this was happening i had a healthy babyboy at 17 and then started Depo I never had any problems with my monthly or with fertility u
I am 25 years old as of now and started Depo after I lost my baby in February. I asked for the bc with the longest effect so I that's why I chose it. The first shot did kinda scare me because my arm was numb for the whole day. I did get constant headaches, I spotted for almost a month, and did notice I felt the need to eat more. I had a period towards the end and had a hard time deciding on the 2nd shot. But since I was very irresponsible with my pills I decided to risk it again just because I loved the idea of not having to worry about a pill. With the second I had no headaches, no more eating anxiety, buuuuut I started getting constipated and as of now I feel that I take way more in than what I let out. I do feel my stomach bigger, but I have had no other side effects so I am willing to risk a little weight gain. I have not had a period since the end of the 1st shot and I ABSOLUTELY LOOOOOOOVE THIS!! I will continue to read reviews before every shot just because my biggest concern is the bone loss and risk of osteoporosis. I have read that after 2 years it is recommended that you stop, but even then I rather just start taking a good source of calcium now. My overall rating for th
if I could offer any advice to someone who is considering taking the Depo shot as birth control - RECONSIDER. Great to not have periods; TERRIBLE side effects. I almost had to have my colon removed I was having so much constipation issues, when finally a doctor realized the culprit was THE DEPO SHOT. I had several tests, labs, doctor visits, medicines, it has been an absolute nightmare, to only find that this shot almost caused a doctor to recommend I have part of my colon removed! Please, do the pill. Simplicity is best. This is only one review, but take it to heart. You don't know what you are doing to your body when you take this, it is not worth it just to enjoy no periods and only 3 times a month. Hopefully this has helped ONE person change their mind!
I took the Depo shot for nearly 5 years. I started it because I couldn't take any other birth control. Primarily for birth control but also to help with endometriosis symptoms. When I took the shot, it work very well. My weight never increased, though it took me years to start loosing weight. When I did start my weight dropped quickly. 155lbs to 120lbs in a few months. My problems didn't start however until I stopped taking the shot. Lack of insurance and money caused me to stop 3 months ago. Since then I've gain back over 20lbs, I am constantly tired. I've yet to have a period. I have all sorts of symptoms similar to pregnancy (breast tenderness, nausea, etc). Worst of all for me is the anxiety. I can't even go to the store or take my kid to school without problems. In the past five days I've had 4 panic attacks and no sign of getting better. My only 2 options wait it out or start taking the shot again.
Please don't ever try this drug. The side effects by far outweigh the benefits. I have been on the shot for about a month and I've been bleeding profusely for about three weeks now. It started as a light spotting but got increasingly worse to the point where it's twice as heavy as a normal period would be. I've been changing a super plus tampon once every hour to two hours. Not to mention severe cramps, headaches, and backaches. But the worst symptom of all is by far the mood swings. I've gone from incredibly depressed to ecstatically happy to full of rage and anger within a matter of minutes. Please don't take this drug.
Depo shot sucks!!!!! I had so many side effects such as no interest in sex, severe headaches, severe bloating, abdominal cramps, severe joint pain, bleeding out of the blue. It is aweful and I will never ever take this shot again!!!!!!!
I was very worried about trying the depo because of all the bad reviews about weight gain. I did tons of research and you gain just as much as any other BC methods. I'm very irresponsible so I thought it would be the best choice for me and I was right. When I had gotten my first shot I spotted very lightly 3 out of 4 weeks until my next shot and that's when it completely stopped. I've had no pain, acne breakouts, (if anything it cleared my skin more) or weight gain. I've actually lost weight changing my eating and exercise. The only problem I have is when I get the shot it bruises for the day and I get nausious for about an hour. I'm sure my body will get use to that soon considering I just started and I'll for sure Continue to use this.
So I have been on the depo shot for 14 days. So far it's ok. I have had a light spotting period not more than a pad a day but still always feleong it. So annoying. Any one else have the issue to.
I am 29 years old(30 in January 2016) and had been taking birth control for years, after being single for some time I came off the pill(why take contraception if am not having sex) and then when I met my new partner I decided to go for the shot. BIG MISTAKE!! I had never ever EVER experience problems controlling my weight before, at 5ft 8 I always stayed between 128 to 132lbs, in early December of 2014 i took the shot prior to leaving for travels. I packed a bit of loose clothes and where i stayed had no mirror or scale. I ate as I usually did, fast forward to 6 weeks later I am getting into my jeans to come home and its tight as HELL, I mean i had to STUFF myself in!, Get home and weight myself, 152lbs, yes in 6 weeks I gained about 20lbs. I hit the gym and start exercising 5 days a week and I was going hard, the weight wouldn't budge past water weight loss. I was looking out for my period to return by March, April, June, July, August, September and nothing. Mind you the weight still in the 150's. Finally turned to some herbal solution or assistance and came across Dong Quai and Chaste berry in various forms(tea, dried root pills, tinctures). I took the tea made from dried root of
I have so many side effects! It's not worth taking it! These are all of my side effects: Abdominal pain Acne Decreased interest in sex Depression! Dizziness Headaches Irregular periods Nervousness Weakness and fatigue Weight gain Hair loss I have never been depressed in my life. Now that I'm on the depo shot I have terrible thoughts. I'm an emotional wreck! I haven't even been on it for more then 2 months!! I was crazy when I took the pills too so I no longer want to even try birth control again.
I have been on Depo for 5 miserable and regrettable months. The first 3 months after the first dose were terrible. Horrible cystic acne, new AND worsened depression (I say this because I used to be the 'bleed alone' type and rarely ever cried, now I randomly break out crying at inappropriate times) I also have tons of bloating and constipation issues. I don't see this listed as a side affect, but I've never had this problem before, But it coincides with beginning depo, and it's the only thing that has changed. No other medications, no diet change, no physical activity change, and my doctor says I'm healthy. My hair has fallen out and I now have bald spots. As horrible as all of this probably sounds the BLEEDING. OMG the bleeding. All the time! It never stops! 5 months solid I've been bleeding! I regret getting the shot the second time, but my doctor said "oh don't worry after the 2nd shot, everything evens out" she must be an idiot. She should have said, "Try this birth control! It'll make you miserable so you can't even fathom having sex, and if that doesn't work, the constant bleeding will surely keep anyone from wanting to have sex with you!" Thanks doc... Might as well preach
I took Depo for birth control for about 1yr. And for that it worked amazing!! But I have been off it for 9 months and cannot get pregnant. This is extremely upsetting and I regret ever taking this drug. If you want to have a family later in life DONT TAKE DEPO.!!
I have been on the depo shot for about 11 years and I LOVE IT. I am not good with taking pills. When I first got the shot of course the doctors did it while my cycle was on. I bleed for about a month lightly but it wasn't nothing to bad considering that the drug had to get in my system and my system had to get use to the drug. After, that I have not had a period (11 yrs) which I do not miss at all.I have not gained any weight from the shot (if you gain weight look at your genetics, push away from the table and exercise) people need to stop blaming this drug for putting the food to their mouth. Think about this "if you get pregnant you're going to gain/loss weight, lose your hair, mood swing etc" (you have just as many side effects been pregnant). I LOVE IT and I am going to stay on it as long as they continue to make it. I have 2 kids, first child 18 years and my last baby is 11 years old. I don't want the mirena b/c I know that is not good and there have been recalls. My daughter had the mirena and she had to quickly have it removed. She did not want the shot b/c everyone talked about weight gain, hair loss, mood swings etc. I told her if you get pregnant you will gain weight. I w
I've been on Deop for 24 years! For the first few years I got about one period a year, then nothing since for decades. I've had no skin issues (but then I didn't as a teen either, have dry skin over all), no mood swings (but then I'm not a moody person), no accidental pregnancies (I've never been late on a shot), no weight gain (that couldn't be ascribed to eating too much junk food). It has been a very positive experience for me. I'm very active with horses and not worrying about a period for those events as well as my sex life has been amazing. I do take extra calcium and have my bone density checked, just in case.
In the beginning of this year, I was diagnosed with severe endometriosis. I was constantly in and out of the hospital due to the pain. My gyno recommended I try Depo. The first shot I took, I did not face any mood swings. However, I had HORRIBLE ACNE. I had flawless skin before trying Depo, and my skin got so bad, there was barely any clear skin left. Before I made the connection that the Depo had caused the acne, I received my second shot. My skin got even worse, and I ended up going to the dermatologist and even a top of the line skin specialist- he stated that no matter what he prescribed, the Depo was too strong. He recommended I wait to completely come off of the Depo before he could help calm the acne. Also, after the second shot, I had mood swings. I felt depressed and was crying all the time. The crazy part was I had no idea why I was so depressed or sad, I had no reason to be, but I could not shake the feeling. It's now been 3 months since my last Depo shot, and I am doing so much better. I'm back to being happy, and my skin has drastically improved. I would not recommend the shot- I believe the cons outweigh the pros. If you have endometriosis, I know it hurts and sucks,
When using this drug, I always had irregular bleeding. I took it every 3 months, and there were times where I would bleed for the entire 3 months. I did use the generic version, medroxyprogesterone, so maybe that has something to it. In addition to the irregular bleeding, I would get severe stomach pains/cramps to the point that I had to walk around to try to alleviate some pain which didn't help. The, what I called, stomach attacks, would last for a hour and then I would be good as new. These stomach attacks would occur 3-7 times per 3 months I was on this drug. When mentioning it to my OBGYN, he felt it was just side effect from first starting it and that I should continue on the drug. I continued on it, mostly because taking only every 3 months was very ideal, and I had continued with the same issues. Not mention all the weight I had gained - so my next visit my doctor finally switched me back to the pill which seems to have ceased all stomach attacks. Everyone experiences medication differently, but this was my experience!
For starters, two weeks after i got my first shot, I got very dizzy, weak, & nauseous. I am not going to pin this completely on the depo shot because I took adderal during those two weeks. I just thought I should mention it if I'm going to give a through & honest review. Despite those side effects, I had no period for a month straight and I believe that I was completely protected. However, after the first month passed, I started spotting. The spotting continued for almost two months. At the end of the two months (when depo started to wear off), I got something similar to a period for one week! I have never been so excited to see a period in my life! After the week was over, I felt like I was out of the clear until I started spotting again! I was so mad! Thank God it only lasted for about a couple of days. I did not return for my second depo shot. During my three months with depo, I felt very weak and I felt like I had to sleep a lot. I was spotting/bleeding throughout most of the duration of having my shot so I did not get to have any sex. I also did not desire to have sex. Most of the time I was just worried when is it going to wear off and if I was ever going to see my period
Started taking the depo shot when I was 18 in college for six months. First hormonal method I've ever used and boy was that a mistake. Have a history of depression and depo made it 10x worse. I'm amazed me and my boyfriend didn't break up with how many stupid fights I started with him. Bled almost the entire time I was on it. (Pretty bad considering one of the main selling points is it takes away your period). Switched to the pill a while ago and haven't had any symptoms other than fatigue. The only good thing I can say about depo is I didn't get pregnant on it.
Weight gain and got pregnant on it. Many good years on pill.
I've been off and on for a while. And my mood swings are so bad that I cry every night because I think my boyfriend is leaving me. I get the worst headaches and I'm still bleeding after a couple weeks. Wouldn't recommend this
I've been married a year, and was always pretty thin on my other birth controls. So my husband and i decided to get on the depo shot for convenience and so I wouldn't have a period. The depo shot is horrible! I have gained 30 pounds, I got acne, became way too emotional for silly reasons, have spotting and periods for weeks. I did the pill thing where you take the birth control pills for 3 months and skip the placebo, then take the placebo pills after the 3 months has gone by (so you only have 4 periods a year). That made me so angry for no reason and I gained some weight. The depo is worse than that. I've been in it for two shots and gained that much weight I can't imagine how much I will gain if I keep going with it. So I'm going back to birth control pills. The depo is not worth it.
Don't do it. I've been on the shot for ten weeks. I've had ten weeks of depression and four weeks of the worst period I've ever known, passing clots three inches wide and half an inch thick. The clinician told me most women experience only weight loss and no periods. What a liar. I'm getting the copper IUD next week and praying that the depression levels out soon. It's gotten a tiny bit better in the past week, but now I'm moody and very easily upset, when I'm normally very even tempered. This was the worst thing I've ever done to myself.
I'm 19. I've been on the depo for about a year and a half. I have mixed feelings about it. The side effects I got was weight gain, severe mood swings, and it made my depression come back very strong. It is convenient and very effective but I wouldn't recommend it. I also haven't had my period in 10 months which is amazing but idk if it's worth it. Both the emotional and physical toll it takes on you will drain you. But even I had it pretty good compared to some of the other things I've seen on here. I'm switching to condoms and possibly an iud in the future.
Was getting my shots on a regular basis of every 3 Months. I got pregnant with my son.
IT IS AWFUL! Never get this please! I read reviews on it and thought I'd take a chance with the 1 or 2 good reviews I saw and it's literally ruining my life. I've been on my period for about 5 months now. I just can't explain how awful it is. I got my second shot a month ago, so regretting that I did it again!!! I'm having emotional issues, relationship issues, everything. Please please please just take the pill because I would never ever want anyone to go through this!!!!
Taking the depo shot was the biggest mistake of my life! I switched to it from the pill because I was getting cysts so my doctor recommended it to stop my periods to help the cysts, since I got the shot in June I've gained 10 pounds, had to be put on medicine for anxiety, have chronic hip pain in my right hip that is so bad I can't even sleep, and instead of having no period I have periods that last weeks!
I had fibroid removal surgery in 2012. They were not able to get some of the smaller fibroids so I knew that someday I would have to deal with the return of symptoms such as heavy periods, cramping ect. So when my periods started to get heavier the dr recommended the depo shot. I got the 1st shot June 4th and had no period for that month, I was soo happy. My happiness didn't last long though because July 7th I began to spot and it has yet to stop. I thought the 2nd shot which I got on August 25th would help but it didn't. No 3rd shot for me. I have experienced severe stomach pain, I have a bad attitude for no reason, hot flashes, dry skin patches, dry and brittle hair, very tired and sleeping a lot. I would not recommend this medication.
I'm 29 and I've used depo before the only downfall I've had was depressed mood swings and waiting a long time to get my cycle back, I've never had a problem with the depo shot but now me and my fiance want children so I'm not going back for the second shot I only recommend this to those who definitely don't want children in the long run if you want children early don't go with the shot use something else like condoms!.
I had a baby back in August of 2013. The first 2 months after delivery I lost 20 lbs then I decided to get on birth control. My doctor suggested the depo shot and like an idiot I agreed. WORST MISTAKE OF MY LIFE! I noticed within the first 10 weeks I gained 30 lbs and my face was extremely puffy. I have really long hair and never had a problem with it but now it's extremely knotty and dry. I was always tired and became very depressed. My skin also became severely dry so much so that i developed a skin condition similiar to severe eczema. I was starting to get emotional and became a very angry person. I was always calm before and now the smallest thing can set me off. The only positive experience on this shot was i did not get any periods nor did I become pregnant. I stopped the shot after one year. It has been a year since I stopped and I am still SUFFERING from all the issues I developed while on this life ruining drug. STAY AWAY FROM DEPO!
i started taking this at 16, I only received 3 shots total.i am now 22 and can not conceive, very irregular on my cycles ( 1 about every 4 months) maybe not even that and when it does come im sick, very sick. it ruined my life!!! I gained over 60 lbs and even dieting and excercising I can not get itoff for nothing.also the second time I got shot I had a period for over a month straight heavy flow, went to doctor they said it was takng time to adjust, I was throwing up, migraine headaches, weak so I went to hospital, they had to give my fluids, I had shrunk down to nothing and they gave me a shot to slow own my flow to a normal. DO NOT TAKE THIS EVER!!! I know several who have had close to the same experience as I have :(
BE AWARE of the side effects before you begin taking this. Know that they vary, so read a lot of reviews. It effects everyone differently. Personally, before taking this I had a very flat belly and was a comfortable size 0/1. After 9 months (three shots) I gained 4 pounds. It doesn't sound like much but to me it was a LOT. It looks like a lot on me. My belly is pretty chubby now, my thighs touch, and a size 1 is a squeeze. I ate the exact same as always and this still happened. I've been drinking lots of water and it still isn't going away. That was enough for me to quit taking it. On top of that, I got VERY bipolar and emotional, and clingy as ever to my boyfriend. I also would bleed for a month straight, not bleed for a week, and go right back to bleeding for another month. It made sex annoying. It was awful. It did keep me from getting pregnant though, but personally it just wasn't worth the effects. Now that it's been about 5 months since my last shot (it starts wearing off at 3), my mood swings and clinginess has left. My brain has leveled out again, I feel like myself. The weight however is very much still there. I read that no amount of exercise will help. You just have to
I would definitely to commend it. It's really low maintaince and the only symptoms I experienced was weight loss and no period! Which was awesome. I lost 50 pounds on this shot doing nothing differently than being on the shot. I used it for two years but stopped because of some health insurance issues but u plan on using it again.
I have been on the shot for almost 3 years now and this last year has been awful. The first two years i loved it and had no side effects but this past year ive gained 30 lbs,im on anti depressants, im moody, im tired all the time, im on edge all the time. I would not recommend this birth control method. I got on it bc my periods were very painful and in that sense i loved the shot bc i havent had a period at all since ive been on it. Overall this shot has done nothing but ruin my life in this past year.
I have been taking Depo for about 9 years. My youngest son is 10. I had a bone density test last year, everything fine! I started taking it to avoid having periods as they were very heavy and painful. They stopped straight away and I never had spotting or anything. It was wonderful. I can't remember my last period - it's GREAT. I haven't had any real side effects. I would recommend it to anyone as I know have a new partner, and the benefit of contraception is great. I tried the Implanon and Mirena and neither worked for me.
I started taking the Depo shot because I was worried that I'd miss the pill each day, so I did this mainly out of convenience. WORST MISTAKE EVER. I was on it for 14 months, and for about 11 of those months I was bleeding or spotting. Doctors kept telling me it was "normal" and that my body was just taking its time adjusting to the medication. In that 14 months, I gained almost 75 pounds, my mood swings were awful, severe depression, muscle aches, constant fatigue, really short fuse (and normally it takes a LOT to get me angry / upset, and I honestly wasn't a pleasant person to be around. Suffered hair thinning and hair loss, and it's at a point where my hair basically stopped growing. I eventually stopped taking it and went to the pill. Noticed a change within the first couple of months, and if anyone tells me they are thinking about going on Depo, I immediately tell them to avoid it and try something different. I wish I never would have gone on Depo - lesson learned.
I was on depo for 5 years straight. Never missed a shot. I've gained over 60 pounds within the last 5 years, and recently I got off the shot to give my body a break. Now I have a cyst on my left ovary. Depo was a great birth control, but there's way too many side effects. Weight gain, hair loss, lose vitamin c. I wouldn't recommend this birth control to anyone.
NEVER AGAIN!! After trying many BC methods throughout the years, I decided to try depo again. The first time I received the injection I was 18 years old. I enjoy this method because I had no menstrual cycle. I do recall experiencing some weight gain, however that was not the case this time. I am now in my 30's snd I have been on depol for a total 6 months. I have spotted for 6 months straight. Not to mention I've gained 20 pounds with the majority of the weight being put on in the last 3 months
triggered rosacea, migraines, hot flashes. ruined my life.
I have taken depo on and off for 6 years. I experienced loss of appetite and a weight loss of 30 pounds for time on it. My also thinned out. While on the depo I never had a period or any symptoms of them. I got pregnant months after discontinuing the shot. It doesnt hurt to try it.. Affects everyone differently.
I went to my doctor in regards to rather heavy periods and severe symptoms of PMS. I battle with anxiety and OCD and was already medicated for this problem. And I wanted another form of birth control because I was not comfortable taking the pill....not liking the way it made me feel. Two shots of Depo-Provera made my life a living nightmare for almost a year. I seriously thought I had a terminal illness of some kind. I was functioning to a bare minimum. The side effects I experienced were; nausea low blood pressure anemia panic attacks extreme fatigue achy muscles extreme mood swings depression never ending menstrual bleeding 20 lb weight gain I had a period daily for almost 4 months. If I wasn't bleeding heavily, I was at least spotting enough to require protection. After NUMEROUS trips to my doctor in regards to the scary symptoms I was having, it was my husband who suggested it was the needle that was making me feel the way I did. I thank God that I stopped at 2 needles. I cannot imagine what life would have been like if I had gotten a 3rd injection. I was a mature woman of 32 years of age with 2 children at the time I was using Depo-Provera and it is frigh
I'm 17 years old right now. I've been on Depo shot for the first time. I do not recommend this type of birth control to anyone. Honestly there's better birth control options. My experience with this shot has been the worst I was on my period for almost 4 weeks on my 2nd month. I got Anemia feom so much blood loss, and I'm recovering now. I just don't suggest any women to do this as a birth control option. I'll be honest I haven't gained weight at all, I actually lost 8 pounds. I started reading about the depo shot after it being injected and I started regretting it once I had my period for almost 4 weeks and the pain on my abdomen was the worst I've ever experienced so please before doing on the depo I suggest that you read every side effect!
I am 35 years old and have been on Depo for six years. Previously I was on the pill and when I wanted to get pregnant I had to go through a year of other meds to correct my system to be able to ovulate to get pregnant. After my son was born I decided to go on Depo instead of the pill. The only side affect I have had is not period and honestly that is great for me because my period were very severe. After being on Depo for 3 years and stopped to get pregnant again and was pregnant within a month on not going to get my shot when it was due. After have my second son I went back on Depo and have been on it for another 3 years. I would recommend this for birth control.
My experience with the depo shot has been pretty average but now that I've been hearing more about it I'm starting to worry. I was on the pill and had to switch to the depo shot when I found out I had a blood clotting disorder. I did gain weight and one other thing that happened was my breasts would sometimes lactate? Not sure if this has happened to anyone else. It was not anything major just a little white discharge sometimes. I'm 20 and have been on the shot a little over a year and it makes me neverous reading things about infertility from the depo and increased risk of breast cancer for those who take it under 35 years old. I had a miscarriage before starting the depo and I don't want to risk having any problems with pregnancy again. I also read that you shouldn't get the shot longer than 2 years so I plan to end it soon.
DO NOT TAKE THIS SHOT! Well to start I was told I had 3 months after I was due for my last dose before I would become fertile and I became pregnant 3 weeks after I was due for my shot. I formed a Cyst on my left ovary that has continued growing for over 12 years which I can not without taking another form of birth control pill or dangerous surgery. But the worse was I WENT BALD, I lost over 75% of my hair and had to wear a scarf on my head for nearly 7 months all the while experiencing extreme abdominal pains that would leave me bed ridden for 7 days or so at a time. It was one of the worst experiences a young woman could suffer through, not to mention very scary. And of course there was the extreme anxiety and mood swings I had never experienced before the shot. It literally ruined my life the rare times I went in public I would be approached by people confusing me for a cancer patient. I could not get a job and I had an unexpected baby I had to care for. I still suffer from bouts of severe discomfort from the cyst. Don't do it! There is a lot more options and I could do it over I would use condoms and nothing else considering all the women who have died from blood clots and other
Got this after having to be treated for complex atypical endometrial hyperplasia which was awful. I can't do estrogen, so this was supposed to be my best option for both prevention of recurrence as well as birth control. I started spotting or lightly bleeding on June 8th and it's now July 22nd and I've bled or spotted every single day since then. It's extremely annoying. The doctor told me this might happen so I will go in for my second shot, but there's no point in a birth control that makes you bleed all the time, you can't really have sex anyway. I'm really hoping I'm not one of those people who just can't tolerate the shot and will bleed constantly while on it because I really wanted this to work for me and because I had the hyperplasia I will have to get the shot anyway or do something more drastic, which I really don't wanna do.
I was on Depo for 9 months when I was 15, to stop extremely heavy and prolonged periods. It worked, and I gained about 15 pounds, but no other side effects were awful. I stopped after the 4th shot was due, as my doctor said it could cause infertility and have more side effects in teenagers. Now, at 18, I am in the middle of my 1st shot, and the only side effects I have are no periods, (lightly spotted for the first 2 weeks), very rarely do I ever wake up with a headache or nausea, but the worse so far is fatigue. I have a very busy and active lifestyle, so I will never fully know if it's from Depo, from stress, or from a combination of both. I will likely continue Depo for a full year before switching to a different form of birth control. The biggest reason for me choosing Depo is because of the likeliness of not having a period. My periods were worse than Satan himself, and I was bed-bound for a whole week, suffering heavy blood loss, unbareable cramping, and nausea so bad that I was unable to eat.
Do not get this birth control. It's horrendous. I've been on depo on and off since I was 19. The first time I took it I had no problems, the second time no problems but on the third time I suffered with the horrible symptoms. I gained weight which I've never done before. Honestly, you can eat a grape and the depo changes that grape into the equivalent of a 4000 calorie meal eaten every hour. (: I also bled all the time and suffered acne which I've never had. I really wouldn't recommend depo to anyone. I only had one shot, which was in November and I'm just waiting for it to leave my system. I'm not dating at the minute and don't want another child but I am nervous that this has ruined any chance I have of ever being a mom again. It's just a horrible drug. I won't ever be putting fake hormones in my body.
I have been off depo for a year and a half and now have PCOS. I do not recommend, it will mess you up when you get off of it. It needs to be taken off the market. I'm not the only one this has happened to. I am now infertil.
Ive only had one shot so far but since then i've been experiencing mild cramps just about everyday and extreme mood swings. Although this has been successful in preventing pregnancy, I dont think i'll be receiving another shot. Good luck to all that go through with this form of birth control! It is different for everybody.
I don't recommend this to anybody had my first shot in March second in June every sense this shot I have wake up to headaches. I have loss a lot of my hair. I am very forgetful now. I am tired and get upset too quick then start crying.
I've been on depo for almost a year now and have had only mild symptoms. I use it for birth control and it's done its job so far. The only symptoms I've had were some spotting in the first three months which then disappeared after the second shot I got and weight gain. I did gain some weight but I actually like that since I always been so thin and struggled to gain weight. I love my body even more now. I believe everyone's body is different and depo is different for everyone. I felt like I needed to share my experience. I did try birth control pills and they were just horrible. I was constantly nauseous and my breast were so tender. Depo is honestly the best birth control method for me. I also take calcium supplements every day to help with the bone density loss.
I had the Depo-Provera shit in my buttock 8/15/12. I was my choice of birth control, it was the worst year of my life. I literally had my period for a year straight, after seeing all kinds of doctors and specialist a doctor determined the cause as a bad effect to the Depo shot. I had no sex drive for two years! It was given to rapist in prison to lower sex drive. I lost so much weight due to this drug. Why this is a legal form of birth control and not fully explained by doctored is disgusting to me!!!
I've been on the shot for about seven months now, and haven't experienced any of the negative side effects that I'd heard horror stories about (no weight gain, no acne, no hair in unusual places, no major mood swings, etc). I did have unpredictable spotting for the first three months or so, but now I can't remember the last time I saw anything that looked remotely like a period (let alone a spot) - which suits me just fine. Overall I've been very happy with it, only downside is that I have to keep scheduling Dr.'s appointments to get the injection.
I took my first shot the week before December 10th. On December 10th, I started my period as planned. It was the year 2013. It would not stop for a while. 210 days later, it would stop. But it wasn't just 210 days of period; there was multiple doctor visits and exams, even a trip to the hospital. It took them months before they decided this birth control was not right for me. By the end I had anemia, I was dehydrated due to blood loss, and I developed PTSD months later. PTSD from a birth control. My body believed I was pregnant because I went from 210 days on my period to no period. My body and mind panicked and I began to suffer from severe anxiety. DO NOT DO THIS PRODUCT. Pick any other product. Trust me.
This has been my only use of birth control, ever. I'm on year 3 and I love it. I never have to worry about missing a dosage and going to my doctor every three months makes sure I stay healthy. I had no weight gain, minimal headaches occasionally, and have not had a real period in a long time. My insurance also covers all of it, which is fantastic. Love my depo, couldn't go without it.
I got the shot March 2015 no side effects in the beginning. I started spotting the end of March thinking it was no big deal. I've been bleeding ever since. Which has been really annoying. I was anemic before taking the shot. Since I've been bleeding my blood flow has been spotting light medium and sometimes heavy. I feel nausea almost everyday. I've experienced headaches in the beginning that were really sharp but only lasted a few seconds. My most recent symptom was the pain in my thighs. Which was really annoying. When I spoke to the nurse about prolonged bleeding they say some people bleed longer then others. I know 2 people on the shot, one has no symptoms the other doesn't even want to go back for the 2nd. I guess everyone is different. With my experience I wouldn't recommend it.
I WOULDN'T recommend an animal to even TEST Depo-Provera. I got the Shot the second week of April 2015 and Is May 20,2015 I'm still bleeding. One day when I got up from getting my hair braided lots of blood clots came out. I would have thought I had a miscarriage, it was BAD. I'VE been having heavy bleeding to light every single day. It's soooo annoying. I just thank God I haven't been cramping or having any pain. I Do not recommend a Depo Shot. Its sent from HELL. I LITERALLY PRAY FOR IT TO END. IT'S THE WORST THING I'VE EVER DONE IN MY LIFETIME.
I had the depo shot in December 2009. My periods were every 28 days and a size 8 (UK), after I received this contraception I started to experience severe stomach cramps as explained by my nurse. What I wasn't prepared for was the weight gain, then I noticed my hair was starting to thin. Needless to say I never went back for my second shot. In 2012 I got married and by this stage my face was covered in malasma staining and it was worsening. I went to my dermatologist and they informed me that the staining was likely connected to the depo shot along with my alopecia. Finally, a I had answers a I fell into the 5% rare side-effects of the depo shot. I was offered skin bleaching cream, instead a I opted for Obagi which didn't work. In 2013, my sex drive was rock bottom and a I was looking fat, a I started suffering with acne (never in my life have a I had acne) so, I knew that this was all connected with the depo shot. I was also experiencing severe pain in my ovary. I pushed to get bloods taken, they checked me again for thyroid that came back fine, all my hormones were perfect. They sent me to the hospital to get a vaginal ultrasound and it came back that a 7cm tumour on my ovary, thi
I took this at a planned parenthood after having my daughter. I wish I had never taken it. Immediately I started getting terrible migraines, the kind w aura. I couldn't take care of my daughter without the terrible pain that locked up most of my muscles. I bled for almost 2 months straight. I was irritable and hungry all the time. I didn't go in for another shot but I am still experiencing side effects almost 2 years later bc the hormone stays in your fat cells. I became estrogen dominant and losing the 25 pounds I gained has been a real uphill battle. I'm almost down to my normal 125, but I have to eat very little and work out constantly. I started taking apple cider vinegar to get rid of the excess hormones in my gut. That's helped a lot. But I still have muscle fatigue, headaches, and breakouts. When I finally got my period back, the blood was black and smelled awful. Stay away from this drug that's used to chemically castrate sex offenders in the prison system
I really wish I never had this injection. I had my first shot the 31st March. I have been bleeding ever since. There's no point in having this because I can't have sex. So far I haven't put on any weight and it is convenient not having to remember to take a pill everyday but it's not worth all the bleeding I have experienced. I will not be going for my second shot.
I've been on the depo shot for over 4 years now and I couldn't imagine taking any other birth control. People who give this a bad review after one shot shouldn't have an opinion. I mainly started the shot due to excessive bleeding each month that would leave me throwing up, in serious pain and just physically drained. After my first shot my period completely disappeared and haven't had one since I started. I may have two times a year spotting which is a very dark brown color but nothing to be concerned about. I can tell each month when I should be on my period because I have slight mood swings but I certainly don't have depression or anything. The headaches do come every now and again but rare. All I can really say is that I love this shot, but everyone's body will react differently.
I decided to take it because of problems with my period. I was told I wouldn't have a period, but I had a slight flow of blood for over a month. I have struggled with depression for years before the shot, but it has become much more worse. I wish I had never taken it. I hope the effects from the shot will cease. It's been close to a month from the date I was supposed to get the 2nd shot, but I didn't. I feel like crying all of the time. I have gained 10 pounds after I received the shot. If I don't eat as much because I want to lose the weight, I have a terrible sharp pain in my stomach. Why is this drug on the market?
This injection has absolutely ruined my life. Before taking this my periods were every 28 days, lasted about 5 days and very little pain! After going in to a sexual health clinic for a check up I was bullied into having this and unfortunately I let this woman talk me into it. I have had the worst 5 months so far! I only had one shot and it appears to still be going strong. I had a constant period for 3 months, resulting in me becoming anaemic through so much blood loss. I have had more migraines in the past few months than I've had in my whole life. I get lots of dizzy spells and sometimes nausea. I've gained 8lb even thought I eat healthily and exercise regularly. My vagina has become very inflamed and sore and I have no idea why. My dr thinks perhaps it's from irritation of bleeding for so long, and there's not much she can do about that. i don't even feel like sex anymore! You know why it's an effective birth control? Because it's almost impossible to have sex! dont do it!!
I have been on depo for around 2 years now. I thought the shot was a great option for me because I wasn't too good at taking the birth control pill everyday. When I switched to the shot I started having almost every single side effect that I read about before getting it. I've had major headaches, weight gain, horrible mood swings, irregular bleeding, loss in sex drive, dizziness, nausea, and breast pain. I have finally decided that these symptoms are not worth it. If you're planning on getting the shot, read all the information you can before making the decision.
I actually love this shot I was very skinny at first and I gained 12 pounds which leaves me At 124 Pounds I do have Pregnancy Symptoms Like Nausea,Hungry all the time ,Mood Swings,Weight gain but that's always been me except the weight gain I also have no periods and I don't have any type of pain at all It has diffrent effects on different people so I wouldn't suggest you no to get it but if u can't handle any of the side effects don't try it . O and also I have no sex drive at all but I'm fine with that
I honestly don't understand all of these bad reviews. Every woman is different however and I think this drug is missing a lot of positive reviews. I have experienced no significant weight gain. I also did my own research on the drug before I went to the doctor about it, fully understanding that it's a hormone, therefore I expected the fatigue and the drop in my sex drive. I experienced more fatigue, however. Like any birth control you need to take the side effects and your own daily agenda into consideration. If it doesn't work for you, it doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad form of birth control. Drink some coffee and put on your big girl pants because children are MUCH MORE EXHAUSTING than this will ever be!
Ive recently stopped having depo injections And finally feel myself again! The depo was an effective birth control. Simple option so you are not having to remember to take pills everyday. But its really not worth it in my experience the side effects are awful. I was so depressed, emotional and angry all the time. And extremely tired. i also bled light to heavy spotting through the entire 9 months of having it. I also found it put me right off sex altogether. and ive put on a shed load of weight! This injection has ruined 9 months of my life. I wouldnt recommend it to anyone. i am now on loestrin birth control pills and they are great no nausea side effects after taking them. And i finally feel awake!
Although this was a simple injection and kept me from getting pregnant I had horrible side-effects while on it. At first it just made me emotional and i had mood swings which was not normal for me but then things got worse. I became suicidal and i have lost my ability to focus and at times do every day tasks. I have gained about 15 lbs and its all sitting in my stomach. I have had weeks where i have nausea, vomiting, and migraines and i am unable to eat. I was told that this would go away but im coming up on my one year mark and am done with it! It is causing strain on my marriage and i have lost almost all productivity. I hate this shot!
When I first got this shot all was well for the first 2 months and then I got spotty bleeding. It has continued so far. I got my second shot 2 weeks ago. I have been bleeding now for almost 1.5 months. Did any of you have symptoms of a uti from using this? I have had pain down there, went to the doctors and Everything come up normal. Is it maybe from wearing a pad for that long that may be causing discomfort? Or maybe my hormones are causing problems down there? So far I also haven't gained any weight. I am extremely mood and depresses sometimes though. I will not be taking this anymore for birth control. I hate it. Please, if you can help me answer any questions, that would be awesome!
I've been on the Depo shot for almost a year now and I've bled almost the whole time on it. Sometimes it's just light spotting, and then all of a sudden it gets really heavy. I only gained 5 or 10 pounds so far, but I have this awful gut that I can't get rid of no matter what. I also have severely painful cramps that come with hot flashes. The only reason I've tolerated this for so long is because my Doctor kept telling me that the bleeding and everything stops after a year of being on it, but I don't even care anymore. I honestly think they should ban Depo because sooner or later, you're going to have bad side effects from it, especially bone density problems. Oh, and it has also turned me into a monster. I have uncontrollable anger problems now, and I can't seem to feel like myself ever. I will never ever recommend this shot to anybody.
Got on depo for really bad periods at age 20. My dr. Recommended it and told me a little about it. After 6 months I had extreme nausea daily, lost 20 pounds and I only weighed 120 before that, jaundice with my belirubin almost 3 times the normal limit, numbness and tingling, dizziness. I lived off for bread, mashed potatoes and saltines for almost 2 months because that's all I could eat. 6 months after I stopped depo the jaundice decreased and so did the nausea, however I now have a prescription for zofran don't eat or drink more than half of what i used to and have nausea almost 2-3 times a week that keeps me up all night sometimes. Even for those that have minimal side effects, I don't recommend this drug it can ruin you.
Okay, I want to start off by saying that prior to getting the depo shot, I did my research and read these and many other reviews, but ignored them and decided to try it first hand because I'm very healthy and it seemed like it could work well for me. At first I was excited and didn't seem to find anything wrong, but after the first week and a half it all went down hill. Unbearable mood swings, 5 pound weight gain in those two weeks, nausea, TERRIBLE pain in a healed foot injury, absolutely ZERO sex drive, the ugliest cystic acne, (10+ at a time) and daily cramps and migraines. Don't even try it. It's not worth putting stress on your body. Even if you just want to try it out first hand like I did, IT IS NOT WORTH IT. Now I'm on it for 2 more months! THE WORST.
i recently just stop using the drug about three months ago and i have had all of the side effects but my pain in my stomach is lower pain i wouldn't because it is expensive and it only help u for three months it wear off in the third month and it does mess with your bones i hurt my leg and it still is messed up so no
i had my depo shot a little over two weeks ago. still 5 days late with my period. yes there is a little bit of crampy feeling on occasion but nothing that any one wouldn't be able to deal with. along with a little bit of a headache. but i think it is really good so far. i haven't had any weight gain but reading other peoples reviews im not worried about gaining 5-10 pounds at all. i mean weight is weight and people shouldn't be worried about gaining a couple pounds. no ones body is perfect and life isn't based on how u look on the outside it counts how u r on the inside.
I was on the Depo shot for nearly 2 and a half years.. The whole time I was on it I had no periods but serious pain in my stomach. Plus I had serious mood swings. I also gained nearly 20 pounds which was due to the birth control. I ate healthy and was walking a lot and worked out 2 times a week. If your okay with gaining so much weight and having to deal with a bunch of side effects ( i didn't list all of them that I was having on here) then its a good birth control with not getting you pregnant. I switched to Junel 1/20 BC pill and I love it so far.
When my physician talked me into getting the depo shot, it sounded like a cheap and easy form of contraception. I was not warned that it may cause weight gain and a loss of sex drive. Which kind of defeated the purpose of getting birth control in the first place, because i had almost no desire to have sex afterwards. Also, I maintaining a semi healthy diet and a regular exercise routine I gained nearly 20 pounds.
When my physician talked me into getting the depo shot, it sounded like a cheap and easy form of contraception. I was not warned that it may cause weight gain and a loss of sex drive. Which kind of defeated the purpose of getting birth control in the first place, because i had almost no desire to have sex afterwards. Also, I maintaining a semi healthy diet and a regular exercise routine I gained nearly 20 pounds.
My doctor started me on Depo to stop menstruating, relieving my ovarian paint, preventing an ovarian cyst to develop. So far, so good. This was my first shot, and I haven't had any ovarian pain associated with my cycle, which would be due about now. I usually got severe ovarian pain 1 - 2 weeks before my period, every month for years! I often had to go to the ER for a toridol injection to ease the pain. That was getting rather costly and this was the choice of my doctor. I did notice some mild irritability, but nothing too severe.
I've been on Depo-Provera 3-monthly injections for over 20 (twenty) years. I love it and have no side effects except that I don't have a period at all. Can't imagine life without it. I have my WHOLE life to enjoy. The generic brand doesn't work for me.. I tend to spot. The cylinder implant was the worst thing I ever tried - the thrush was unbearable.
The depo shot does prevent pregnancy however I have been on it for almost a year, and I have had a period constantly since I first got the shot. It is not a heavy period but still it is constant. I also have really bad pelvic cramps.I am finally switching.
Taking this shot was a terrible, terrible mistake. My OBGYN clearly did not review my medical record or she would have never put me on this awful birth control method b/c I'm extremely sensitive to hormones. I was hesitant to get an IUD so she recommended depo. I was scared to not be on birth control so I agreed. Since I got my first shot 3 months ago I have gained 10-12 lbs depending on the day, the two periods I've had both lasted over 14 days and were more like heavy spotting than a normal flow, my hips and boobs are much bigger (and not in a good way), my migraines have become intolerable, I have felt depressed and anxious, constant fatigue and irritability, and anti-social. Before taking it, I was going to the gym 7 hours a week, going out all of the time and feeling pretty good about myself. In a very short period of time all that has changed and I'm terrified this toxic synthetic hormonal concauction will linger. Please ladies, be advised, DO NOT TAKE THIS!
I have gotten pregnant on the pill, after burning my tubes, and pretty much on almost all bc except the depo. I do gain up to 15lbs, I do experience a little hair loss, I have no period, I still have milk in my breasts, and its taken my body 4-6 months to get back to normal when I get off of it (to give my body a break). Everyone is different but I just wanted to state my facts for those researching this option. I am neutral on it, but as fertile as I am I continue to take it, with breaks every 2 years because of the side affect of bone loss I read about.
I was given Depot after using Lupron for my endometriosis. I was having excrusiating pain after intimacy. The Depot did it's job as far as removing my pain, but unfortunately I bleed constantly for 14 month. I only had 2 weeks of no flow in 16 months. Some of the bleeding was like a regular period, some was just spotting. The constant bleeding definately put a dampner on my intimate life. I stopped taking Depot, January was the end of the medicine in my system, but I continued to bleed until May. It's July now and I've only spotted once. It's nice to not be bleeding continually, but the pain from endometriosis is back. I actually prefered the Lupron with the hot flashes and mood swings to the constant bleeding.
I was put on this birth control because i have a hyper-coag(blood clotting) disorder, and had a blood clot on the pill. The only thing i like about this drug is you get the shot once every 3 months, and i'm not pregnant. I also feel like it clears up my skin. I hate the weight gain thing. my doctor lied to me and said the weight gain is a mental thing, like if i gained weight i would blame it on the shot. I stopped taaking the shot for 2 months and noticed my metabloism went up and i lost weight. oh well. It's expensive too
I am a full time college student and a mother of one. I was always forgetting to take the pill, so I switched to the Depo shot for convenience. Sadly though, I am now on a weight loss program due to the steady weight gain over the past 3 years. If you don't mind putting on some weight and are forgetful with the pill, I recommend this treatment.
i took depo-provera for over a year and the doctor told me weight gain was possible but i lost over 45 pounds in the 1st 3 months, i thought it was amazing. but when i got the 2nd shot i started gaining weight. i gained over 75 pounds in less than 6 months. it is horrible, not only am i the biggest i've ever been in my life it increased my depression and anxitety severely. i had a couple months where i didn't want to get out of bed or even spend time with my step kids (the loves of my life),my ovarian cysts became more frequent,very painful, and now i have double the amount of scar tissue on my ovaries then i did when i started. the only thing i liked about depo is you only have get a shot every 3 months. i do not recommend depo to anyone, it might sound great but when you add up the side effects (in which case there is no possible side effects, they will happen) it isnt worth it. i have mirena now and so far so good.
This drug caused me to have severe panic attacks and depression. I did not have any symptoms of these disorders before taking this medication. I would not recommend this as a form of bc.
dont use it because when i was due for a shot my heart would start palputating. the doctors say there is no side affect like that , but there is. now i have a severe heart palputation problem needing doctors care.
I did not research this method at all before switching, which was a bad idea. I was not aware that some of the side effects were GETTING acne, having a prolonged period, loss of libido, and dryness... until I started taking it. A few days after getting the shot, my face, chest, and back broke out and have routinely been breaking out since. When I first got the shot, I did not have a period for about three weeks. Then it came and has not left since. I have been having a period for three months now. I have experienced loss of libido but it comes in waves, fortunately. And the dryness is always there but this can be dealt with fairly easily. I have not experienced weight gain or depression. My attitude toward depo provera is neutral... I'm just using it for birth control and it's working so I suppose I can't complain too much. My doctor DID tell me about the bone loss and has told me to take 1200 mg of calcium a day along with vitamin D.
I took the Depo and I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND!!! The shot has caused me to have polycistic ovarian syndrom and like many others, now my doctor says that I may have to be on medication to help have children. I have not taken the shot for 2 years and I still have extreme side effects due to it. I have periods for 2-3 months at a time and sometimes go 6-8 months without a period at all. This shot will completely ruin your chances of haveing children naturally and will effect you negatively for years after you have stopped!!
I took the Depo and I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND!!! The shot has caused me to have polycistic ovarian syndrom and like many others, now my doctor says that I may have to be on medication to help have children. I have not taken the shot for 2 years and I still have extreme side effects due to it. I have periods for 2-3 months at a time and sometimes go 6-8 months without a period at all. This shot will completely ruin your chances of haveing children naturally and will effect you negatively for years after you have stopped!!
I was put on Depo at age 15 because of a heavy period and severe stomach pains. Before Depo my period could last as long as 2 weeks, stop for a week and start again. I am now 28 and still taking the Depo am happy with this treatment. I have experienced occasional spotting but only rarely and it has only been days before the next injection was due. I have gained some weight over the years but only a small amount, I believe the weight gain that I experienced is more to do with the fact that I have gotten older and it's normal for a woman's metabolism to slow down, also I don't exercise frequently or eat well. When i do start exercising and eat well I lose weight easily. So I don't think it's fair to blame it on the depo. I have NEVER in all the years experienced any cramps on it. That, coupled with the fact that I no longer have a period have been a blessing. I believe there are a lot of woman who have had positive experiences with depo.
CONTRACEPTION FROM HELL!!! It's been almost a year since my first and last injection expired and I am still struggling to get back to my normal health. A week after injection my hell began! I started experiencing severe shortness of breath ( I was 29, healthy and quite fit) during simple daily activities, I suddenly started hating my job and felt really low. Additionally I had severe headaches for around 3-4 weeks from injection and very often mild nausea. If that wasn't enough my hair started falling out heavily and my occasional spot turned into pretty bad acne (including on my chest and back which was never the case before). I should give top marks for effectiveness as it completely killed my libido!!! Whilst on Depo, I did not have any period. Now almost 12 months later I still struggle with acne and dreadful PMTs (with periods on average every other month if lucky) In my case Depo Provera was the biggest mistake.
I am 47 years old and have been having pre-menopause symptoms for about three years.I had a Depo shot initially to stop a long, heavy period (24 days). The period stopped after two days, but about a month and a half later I started spotting. I have had everything from spottting to passing clots for the past two months non-stop. I have a doctor's appointment in a week to address these side effects.
I took my first depo shot to avoid having a hysterectomy due to uncontrollable bleeding. I was being pushed to have the surgery and the doctor gave me the shot to "give me time to think about it." I figured if the shot could stop the bleeding, why did I need the surgery??? Therefore, I found another doctor and kept taking the shot for about four years until I got down to about one period per year. The bad side effect was I gained about 30 lbs. I was also on Effexor, so who knows what actually caused the weight gain, maybe both of them. The wonderful unexpected benefit was that my debilitating migranes vanished. I had been plagued with migranes for about 25 years. My neurologist tried many, many drug treatments to no avail. Some of the medications made me feel like a zombie. The pain of the migranes was excruciating. Once I took the depo shots, they just vanished! How wonderful! I also got to keep my "parts."
taking depo provera was THE WORST choice i could have made. about a month into the first injection i got my period. then MY PERIOD LASTED OVER 2 MONTHS STRAIGHT. at first it was light but after a few weeks it got heavier and heavier. i havent had sex with my boyfriend in over 2 months because of this and im incredibly tired every day. Just walking a few blocks and im out of breath from lack of iron i believe. i talked to the doctor and she just said i had to wait till it was out of my system which will be another few weeks. NOTHING is worth getting your period for 2 months straight. I realize this doesnt happen to everyone, but i was perfectly fine on the pill with no side affects so i assumed i wouldnt be different on the shot. I read that the hormones in depro provera are supposed to thin the lining of the uterus so the eggs will not attach, but in some cases the lining thins so much it is like an open wound that continuously bleeds. DONT TAKE THE SHOT!
I am so happy to find someone using this for menopause. I still have a lot of symptoms at this time but it's only been a few weeks. My O/B switched me from primpro to this and I'M JUST WAITHING TO SEE WHAT HAPPEN BUT SO FAR i still have speratic periods,hot flashes mood swing,night sweats and bad headaches. all I can say is I fell like I'm going crazy some days if anyone out there has any further helpful advice please send it my way. thank god for this website.PS.I am just in the perimenopausal stage please tell me it gets better.
This drug has been wonderful for me. Yes, I gained a few pounds and feel more tired than I did before, but I have no pain and no periods. I have been taking Depo Provera for years for Endometriosis and by the time the time my doctor suggested it, I had already tried every other treatment on the market. I do think it is terrible that my insurance doesn't cover this, but I am so happy to be out of pain that I pay for it gladly.
Okay, I got the shot when I was 17 in about January the thought of it was ok all i heard of was little or no periods and that it was very effective. i'm now 18 and i can tell you 1. it works i havent gotten pregnant, but 2. i'm beyond ready to GET OFF the depo shot. when i shower my hair falls out, if i'm not constantly on a period -which would be rare, i would bleed right after sex and so far i've been on my period for 3 months. i know everyone is different but most woman get the worst of the depo so i WOULD NOT recommend to anyone .. im moody as hell, this everlasting period WILL make a female go crazy, and you get stomach pains like cramps but a little worse..in the beginning i was getting them to the point where i couldnt even get off the bed .. so ..if you plan on taking the shot make sure you do your homework on it, dont be hardheaded like i was. cause trust and believe im here looking up different birthcontrols and there side effects..just jumping into it is a mistake .
Okay, I got the shot when I was 17 in about January the thought of it was ok all i heard of was little or no periods and that it was very effective. i'm now 18 and i can tell you 1. it works i havent gotten pregnant, but 2. i'm beyond ready to GET OFF the depo shot. when i shower my hair falls out, if i'm not constantly on a period -which would be rare, i would bleed right after sex and so far i've been on my period for 3 months. i know everyone is different but most woman get the worst of the depo so i WOULD NOT recommend to anyone .. im moody as hell, this everlasting period WILL make a female go crazy, and you get stomach pains like cramps but a little worse..in the beginning i was getting them to the point where i couldnt even get off the bed .. so ..if you plan on taking the shot make sure you do your homework on it, dont be hardheaded like i was. cause trust and believe im here looking up different birthcontrols and there side effects..just jumping into it is a mistake .
I was on the depo shot from age 14 to 17 to try to stop my extremely painful periods. At first I had some breakthrough bleeding but after 5 months my periods stopped completely which was great! Canâ€™t remember why I stopped depo but have now gone back to it (just got my 2nd shot) at age 26 to try to stop my endometriosis coming back again. Iâ€™ve had two laparoscopies for the endo, after the first one my pain (instense stabbing pains during sex) came back within 2 months so this time I went and got the depo a week after surgery to see if it would prevent it coming back again. Itâ€™s been 3 months now and so far thereâ€™s no sign of the pain returning. I haven't had any weight gain so far on depo although Iâ€™ve had a minor problem with pimples and spotting which I hope will disappear soon. Also it seems to have caused an increase in herpes outbreaks for me which apparently can be common. The side effects are worth it to me though if it means I can avoid more surgery for endometriosis
I guess every woman is different because as the months wore on I bled more and more until I was permamentaly spotting so heavy I was always have a period. My sexlife with my husband obviously suffered. The estrogen also apparentally gave me my headaches which were so bad I had to take leave so I could wait them out at home for a day or two. As far as weight gain I am very athletic but when i started depo i became alot less active so I thought the 10 pnds I gained was all my fault. Of course now Im off Depo and Ive lost 10 pnds in the last 2 months and I havent changed my work out at all so I suppose I have to agree with all the ladies who have gotten chubby on the shot.
I was iffy about starting to take this, but could no longer take BC pills because the estrogen in them made my blood pressure soar. Also, I really wanted to get rid of my periods, as I actually got suicidally depressed and angry every month. I was tired of being a nutcase exactly every month and then being fine after my period started. BC pills did nothing for me in this regard and I believe actually probably made me worse. (My doctor said that estrogen is often to blame for this stuff.) I just got my second shot two days ago. The first day I seem to be a little tired but now I'm fine and looking forward to three more months of pain free emotionally unbalanced-free period free existence. I said maybe for suggesting this only because some women seem to have real problems on it, but everyone is different. So I say try it if you really want to see.
I was diagnosed with my paraphilia in the fall of 2006 I had read a few studies that Registered Sex Offenders had used the drug and it was working for them not to have the urge to commit offenses. Willing to try anything to stop my thoughts I proceeded with my doctor. I began the treatment in April of 2007 I received shots once a month in the arm that I administered. I ceased treatment in November of 2007 after having 2 suicide attempts that landed me in a psychiatric hospital each time. I explained to my doctor that I still had the thoughts and urges however now I was unable maintain an erection to be sexual with my wife or masturbate to alleviate my sexual frustrations. With the drug failing to cease the deviant sexual urge and with advice from my psychiatrist I discontinued its use. I continued to have problems getting or maintaing an erection for a further 6 months. This drug did not do what was expected from it. Both my doctor and I were dissatisfied with the results.
I have been on depo for about 6 months now and I stopped never went back for another shot. It caused alot of problems. I bleed non-stop for six months. Had to increase my epilepsy medication due to increased seziure activity. In pain to the point where I couldn't move. I experienced losing my hair and now have to wear fake hair pieces to add original look to my hair. Worse of all I couldn't eat or sleep because of that I lost weight very quickly. Being a larger woman all my life was very scary when from a size 38+ waist to a size 20 waist in less then 4 months. I have been off the shot for about a month and Have gotten my period for that whole time. Originally this medication was given to decrease my pain during my period which has increased so much that atleast once a week I have to go to emergency to get the pain killers that make it so my hubby doesn't have to help carry me everywhere. I myself wouldn't recommend it to anyone. But to each there own.
I have been on depo for about 6 months now and I stopped never went back for another shot. It caused alot of problems. I bleed non-stop for six months. Had to increase my epilepsy medication due to increased seziure activity. In pain to the point where I couldn't move. I experienced losing my hair and now have to wear fake hair pieces to add original look to my hair. Worse of all I couldn't eat or sleep because of that I lost weight very quickly. Being a larger woman all my life was very scary when from a size 38+ waist to a size 20 waist in less then 4 months. I have been off the shot for about a month and Have gotten my period for that whole time. Originally this medication was given to decrease my pain during my period which has increased so much that atleast once a week I have to go to emergency to get the pain killers that make it so my hubby doesn't have to help carry me everywhere. I myself wouldn't recommend it to anyone. But to each there own.
I was on Depo for 6 years, from 18 to 20 and 22 to 26. I had no negative side effects whatsoever, and my period was completely absent starting about 2-3 months after my first shot for the entire length of the times I took it. My friends were all envious. I know there are a lot of horror stories out there but that goes for every medication--you usually only hear the bad. I did experience a bit of weight gain, about 15 pounds, but I think that was more due to getting an office job out of college and not constantly walking like I did on campus. Once I started religiously exercising and watching what I ate, the weight came off as normal. I just had Mirena inserted today because my insurance just started to cover it and it will save me money and doctor's trips. If it doesn't work out I'm definitely going back to Depo!
Was on Depo shots for 4 yrs, which completely eliminated my period. Decided to get tubal ligation and go off Depo after I saw a program on TLC where pedophiles were discussing the use of Depo Provera as a form of chemical castration. I immediately went online to look up the side affects and was shocked. I realized that Depo had contributed to my 25 lb weight gain (Depo website itself lists avg weight gain in 1st yr to be 8 lbs & then 6 lbs each yr afterward). The drug also caused problems with my libido, feelings of rage & depression (all stuff actually listed on the Depo Provera manufacturer website). When I finally got it out of my system (a year later), EVERYONE said there was a marked improvement in my demeanor. I know it has helped some people, but the side affects for me were intolerable. I never thought I would be thanking a program about pedophiles for giving me my life back, but that is how I learned what a terrible drug this was for me.
This was the most horrible birth control method I ever tried. I would most definatly not reccomend it to anyone. The shot wasn't anything to me. I'm fine with needles. But when I got it I didn't have my period or any type of bleeding or spotting of any kind for 78 days. I was freaking out thinking I was pregnant. Always taking tests. Because your supposed to have bleeding and then after your 3rd shot (which would be 9 months later) you dont have a period anymore. And so then on day 79 I got my period and boy did I. I bled like crazy. It was out of control. Super heavy and horribly cramping. I never went back for that again. And I eneded up getting pregnant on the pills with perfect use. Never missed one pill. So was "lucky" to be a part of the less than 1% of women who get pregnant. lol. My reccomendation would be Paragard. Its hormone free, which means normal periods. so youll know if you get pregnant. and no weight gain, mood swings or anything.
This was the most horrible birth control method I ever tried. I would most definatly not reccomend it to anyone. The shot wasn't anything to me. I'm fine with needles. But when I got it I didn't have my period or any type of bleeding or spotting of any kind for 78 days. I was freaking out thinking I was pregnant. Always taking tests. Because your supposed to have bleeding and then after your 3rd shot (which would be 9 months later) you dont have a period anymore. And so then on day 79 I got my period and boy did I. I bled like crazy. It was out of control. Super heavy and horribly cramping. I never went back for that again. And I eneded up getting pregnant on the pills with perfect use. Never missed one pill. So was "lucky" to be a part of the less than 1% of women who get pregnant. lol. My reccomendation would be Paragard. Its hormone free, which means normal periods. so youll know if you get pregnant. and no weight gain, mood swings or anything.
My only complaint with this medication is the spotting. My dosage was changed to every 8 weeks because I was constantly spotting. There are several things that can be done for this symptom but we (my Doctor and I) decided to change the time span between shots. This seems to be helping but it's early days yet (only had two shots this close apart) I was advised by my Doctor right away to take calcium and vitamin D which I have been doing. I researched this product thoroughly before I even inquired about it at the Doctor's so I guess I was aware of all the symptoms before. I was not prepared for the constant spotting but decided to stick it out in hopes that it would stop. I have been on Depo for almost a year.
I had always heard about it stopping your periods but it can do the opposite also. I've experianced this once before where I bled for about 3 months straight. I was assured that this would not happen again. The 2nd time I passed out on the floor at work once and had frequent dizzy spells and a large amount of weight gain. I was told this was my best option this time as I had just delivered my son who had trisomy 18 2 months early and lost him. We allready knew we wanted to try again as soon as possible and made this clear to the dr. I was informed that it would help my milk dry up. I now know it can take 6 months to a year to concieve again. I have bled for nearly 4 months and quite heavy. A friend of mine has gone through the same thing during the same time pretty much as myself. I've been reading numerous stories of women who went through this too. I did not find out until nearly my 3rd time on it that you are supposed to take calcium suppliments because it depletes your calcium.
I was diagnosed with endometriosis when I was 12 years old. Since that time I have been on more medications to control it than I can count. I started depo in 2004 after the birth of my second child. I discontinuned use of it in july of 2007. I have gained 30 lbs. since starting it and my "mood swings" are out of control. The only answer that I was given to control them were anti-depressants and "it's just a side effect". I still have not gotten a period and been off for now 3 months.
Depo-Provera should be a last resort when it comes to Hormone Birth Control. Unfortunately for me, it was the first one i was put on. My reason for going on the shot, was Dysmenorrhea (severe cramping). I experienced every side effect in the book while on the shot which i recieved 3 times. I was exhausted all the time, dizzy, i actually blacked out 3 times while on the shot, and i had never done so before in my life. I had hot flashes, constant headaches, back pain and abdominal tenderness. Bloating, irradical hair growth, and acne. Because of all this i was forced to quit my job and was home almost all the time rather than deal with looking and feeling like hell in public. This shot is very unnatural, avoid it at all costs.
I have Endometriosis, and I was diagnosed at 14. I have been on about 30 different types of birth control, including Lupron, to help treat my symptoms. I started taking Lupron at age 19. Not the best time to go through "menopause." After a year I had a laproscopy and went on Seasonale. I had problems remembering to take it. None of my doctor's wanted to put me on the "shot." Then a year ago, i started Depo. I've gained 20 lbs in the past year, but with my body type, you can't really tell. I have had very little spotting. I have very minor acne because of it. but there is one thing that is amazing. I have not had any pain, 0. none. No cramps. I have not missed a day of work due to endometriosis in a year and half. Before I started taking the shot, my working was ready to fire me for missing work due to my disease. I can't tell you how much this drug has saved my life, my job, my relationships with my friends and family.
No Majoir Side Effects I started the drug at age 19 and took it until age 22. It lowered my libido a bit, but I had no other side effects. I did not put on weight (I weight now and weighed then 115 lbs). My periods stopped completely. I didn't realize mt libido had dropped until the last shot wore off. It took 6 months for me to get my period again after the last shot, and if anything it is more normal and rhythmic now than before. Kind of a pain to go to the doctor for shots every 3 mos. cost about $45 a pop. Wish they'd have let me do the whots myself. Went off of it for bone loss concerns (no symptoms, but family history of osteopoorosis. I miss not having periods or worry about pregnancy.
Very effective! Depo-Provera has been very effective in keeping my endo at bay. I have had many different hormonal and surgical treatments over the past 15 years, but after I finally had to have a laparotomy (4th surgery), I decided to try Depo. I have Lupus, so my rheumatologist would not let me use any other hormonal treatment at this point (there is interesting research out there linking Lupus and Endometriosis, by the way). Downside: I gained weight. I think they project that you will gain about 5 lbs. a year. I had to be vigilant to keep it off. Upside: no more periods or cramps after the 2nd injection, no more buying any pads or tampons! I had some issues with my insurance company (Cigna) when they wanted to charge me a $60 co-pay because they considered one shot to be a 3-month dose. I have since switched jobs and insurance and that is no longer a problem. I don't enjoy going to the doctor's office every 12 weeks for a shot in the bum, but I do enjoy the results.
It didn''t help I took Depo-subQ Provera 104 for 4 months and it did not do anything for me. I ended up feeling like I was throwing good money after bad.
Terrible/Lost job due to lost control of emotions I have been diagnosed with PMDD and BiPolor II, Lupron injections were very effective though still had depression symptoms as I imagine is associated with the diag. of Bipolar. Prior to treatment with Zoloft for depression, my symptoms were typical of PMS
Relatively No Problems I was on Depo fairly consistently from 2000-2006. There were a few short breaks in between. The only thing I did not like was I spotted all the time. It was almost like always being on a light period. I did not have any weight gain/loss, nausea, depression or any other side effects. I would say this is an excellent choice for anyone who ahs trouble taking the pill everyday. I only got off of it because of the warnings regarding using it for 3+ years.
Love the stuff Supposedly Depo caused me to become osteopenic, but only in my spine and not my hips. It couldn't *possibly* be the chronic depression I've suffered since 1991 (and only managed/treated since 1999). That's the only negative side effect I noticed and I still say it was the depression and not the Depo that stripped my spine. I'm working on un-stripping my spine now that she took me off the Depo and I'm trying some other stuff for my depression. Also, my dosage started at 6 times the normal contraceptive dosage and I was down to 3 times the normal dosage when she made me stop. I didn't get more depressed on Depo--my mood improved, as did my overall sense of well-being. I also liked NOT having a period, and being able to gross out family members when I jammed the needle into my leg once a month (my doc let me do the injection myself at home since it's I.M. and nearly any idiot can do I.M.) I had a lot more energy on the Depo, too.
My doc made me stop and I''m NOT happy I was put on Depo-Provera in high doses to reduce my out-of-control periods. Out-of-control as in I couldn't manage the iron deficiency anemia that resulted, not even with iron supplements. One D&C and one cervical polyp later, I was ostensibly cured, but my doc let me stay on the Depo because I liked it so much. After a while, she let me just inject myself at home. (never mind that I liked doing the injections because it gave other people the willies when I mentioned it--just one smooth jab into my thigh once a month and I was done) I felt better--I didn't have as many aches and pains, I was in a better mood, I no longer had chronic heartburn and esophageal spasms, I had more energy and I DIDN'T HAVE A PERIOD. For someone who bought stock in Kimberly-Clark so that the dividend would offset the monthly Kotex expenses, this is significant. My doc made me stop after a bone scan which showed that my spine was already osteopenic (my hips are, however, sturdy as ever). I think it's because of 15 years of depression/PTSD, most of them untreated. She says the Depo. I'm going to prove her wrong so I can get back on Depo. I haven't had a period yet, so at least I can be thankful for that.
Depot Provera is evil I tried the depot provera shot after using Lupron successfully for a year. At the time, research indicated I could only use Lupron once. Provera was evil. It made all my menstrual problems worse: heavy bleeding, cramping, periods every 2 weeks. In fact it got to a point that I was constantly spotting. I had to stop taking it. The side effects took months to wear off.
I''d rather be on a different birth control pill I got my first shot the middle of May because I was having pain my gynecologist thought was related to ovarian cysts which they now think is endometriosis. They told me that there weren't many side effects, maybe a little weight gain (5 lbs. over a year on average). I got my second shot the beginning of August. My pain came back after the second shot. I'm moodier than normal, much more emotional. I haven't gained any weight though. They told me that I wouldn't have a period anymore. I don't, but I randomly bleed. I've almost been on this for 6 months now. At least with a pill, you can expect the bleeding and be prepared. I feel more tired. I'm due for another shot at the beginning of November and do not think I'm going to continue. If it isn't going to help me at all, then I'd rather have a less painful dosage form with fewer side effects and predictable bleeding patterns. It's benefit was that it got rid of pain for maybe 4 months and prevented any chance of getting pregnant.
Terrible Depo Provera really makes me felt bad. Altough my pain was gon, but it left me with depression, anxiety, muscle aches, nausea. I've been off it for for months and still feel the same. Can anyone tell me when i will get my life back again
Horrible This gave me severe acne, made me sleep for 14 hours a day and bad mood swings. I know this has done miracles for others. It's weird that way.
Use with caution... not for long term I took depo provera shots for about 10 yrs. I now have osteoporosis at age 35. My rheumatologist told me that it was caused by long term use of Depo Provera. It can be a very effective treatment, but if you take it for a long time, you should take calcium and vitamin D with it, and definitely try not to take it for more than 5 or 6 years without giving your body a break.
Use with caution... not for long term I took depo provera shots for about 10 yrs. I now have osteoporosis at age 35. My rheumatologist told me that it was caused by long term use of Depo Provera. It can be a very effective treatment, but if you take it for a long time, you should take calcium and vitamin D with it, and definitely try not to take it for more than 5 or 6 years without giving your body a break.
Use with caution... not for long term I took depo provera shots for about 10 yrs. I now have osteoporosis at age 35. My rheumatologist told me that it was caused by long term use of Depo Provera. It can be a very effective treatment, but if you take it for a long time, you should take calcium and vitamin D with it, and definitely try not to take it for more than 5 or 6 years without giving your body a break.
Horrible Reaction to Depo shot I had taken the Depo shot when I was 18 and had no ill effects, that I recognized at the time. However, in retrospect, I was very unbalanced at that point and I'm not sure how much was the Depo and how much was the circumstances of my life at the time. When I took it again, 11 years later, to say that I reacted poorly would be an understatement. I had my only depressive episode with borderline personality aspects (though not bpd). I burned myself repeatedly, badly. I couldn't stop the negative inner voice in my head. And I couldn't leave my apartment for a week at a time on several occasions as my mood was so unstable I would burst into tears or outrage with no notice. I ended up having to go through what I affectionately called "crazy daycare" (an outpatient treatment program at a local hospital) in order to get my head straightened out again... that and wait for the shot to get out of my system. It was clear after several weeks that I was reacting poorly... then I was stuck dealing with that for 2.5 months, since it can't be removed once injected. I ended up having to drop out of college for the semester. I would really like to give progesterone another try, as I just had a baby and want to get an IUD (Mirena with its high incidence of light periods and amenorrhea sounded nice), but it looks like I may have to go with Paraguard (non-hormonal, but can cause heavy bleeding and cramping) after all. I am not sure what others have found in regards to progesterone interferring, or not, with their bipolar disorder. But its effects were decidedly detrimental to mine.
Horrible Reaction to Depo shot I had taken the Depo shot when I was 18 and had no ill effects, that I recognized at the time. However, in retrospect, I was very unbalanced at that point and I'm not sure how much was the Depo and how much was the circumstances of my life at the time. When I took it again, 11 years later, to say that I reacted poorly would be an understatement. I had my only depressive episode with borderline personality aspects (though not bpd). I burned myself repeatedly, badly. I couldn't stop the negative inner voice in my head. And I couldn't leave my apartment for a week at a time on several occasions as my mood was so unstable I would burst into tears or outrage with no notice. I ended up having to go through what I affectionately called "crazy daycare" (an outpatient treatment program at a local hospital) in order to get my head straightened out again... that and wait for the shot to get out of my system. It was clear after several weeks that I was reacting poorly... then I was stuck dealing with that for 2.5 months, since it can't be removed once injected. I ended up having to drop out of college for the semester. I would really like to give progesterone another try, as I just had a baby and want to get an IUD (Mirena with its high incidence of light periods and amenorrhea sounded nice), but it looks like I may have to go with Paraguard (non-hormonal, but can cause heavy bleeding and cramping) after all. I am not sure what others have found in regards to progesterone interferring, or not, with their bipolar disorder. But its effects were decidedly detrimental to mine.
Depo Is a Last Resort ONLY option Depo did prevent pregnancy. However sex is the last thing on your mind when you have no libido, gain weight, have break through bleeding constantly and are depressed. Please reconsider other methods of BC before getting the injection. I have been off of depo for 3 months now and I noticed my mood has improved but I am still dealing with the weight and bleeding. Although convienient, this is not a good way to go.
I loved this for some reason, i have been on this for many years and its the only birth control that was able to control my pain and symptoms. recently i stopped taking the shot due to the advice of my doctor and am now taking the pill form, it works but not as great.
depo provera Stopped working for me after about six months. Side effects were awful. I had leg cramps, headaches, nausea, and weight gain.
It was good for me for awhile, but.... The main reason I switched birth control from the shot after being on it for many years was because of the possibility of bone loss- my doctor recommended I switch because of the risk of the shot causing permanent bone loss and increased risk for osteoporosis later in life. The research isn't conclusive yet, but there is a significant possibility of risk. While I was on it, I did not have the nightmare problems that some women speak of. My moods were pretty stable, and my periods stopped all together, which was very nice. I did have adult acne that was exacerbated by the shot, and vaginal dryness/low libido (although it's questionable that that was completely caused by the shot in my case). I also gained a lot of weight, but my eating habits were not good and again, it is hard to say how much of that was the shot and how much my own fault. I was able to lose 60 pounds while being on the shot through diet and exercise. It is a very cost effective method, because there is a generic version availabe now and it is especially cheap if you already have health insurance. It is also widely available in most clinics, although many doctors are steering women away from in because of the bone loss issue. I switched to the Ortho Evra Patch, which I did not tolerate very well even after giving it a trial run of 3 months- I'm switching to the Mircette pill now. I did get my periods back immediately, and they were regular (although shorter than if I was not on hormones). This is probably due to the estrogen content in the patch. You can read about my experiences with the Patch in that section.
depo-provera i was on the shot for 5 years it worked for me. i never got pregnant. i had some spotting every once in a while but never alot. now im wanting to get pregnant and cant because it is still in my body.
Tapering off Hormone Replacement Therapy At the counsel of my gynocologist, I began to taper off both Estrogen and Progesterin until I stopped HRT altogether. I was not too keen on doing this, because I was afraid my old symptoms would return (mood swings, night sweats, etc.) However, much to my surprise, I cannot tell any difference. When I first started HRT, of course one of the benefits advertised was that it was good for the heart; then within the last 5 years, it was totally the opposite (as a result of a Prempro study).
Tapering off Hormone Replacement Therapy At the counsel of my gynocologist, I began to taper off both Estrogen and Progesterin until I stopped HRT altogether. I was not too keen on doing this, because I was afraid my old symptoms would return (mood swings, night sweats, etc.) However, much to my surprise, I cannot tell any difference. When I first started HRT, of course one of the benefits advertised was that it was good for the heart; then within the last 5 years, it was totally the opposite (as a result of a Prempro study).
Can't Live Without It.... I started taking Depo for birth control and it changed my life. The absence of all the syptoms that I thought women were "supposed to have" made me discuss it in more depth with friends and medical professionals and discover that the problems I had been having were not the norm. Now I take Depo for my PMS. Not having my period is a fabulous side effect. I think ALL women should take it, unless you are trying to get pregnant. Particularly when I was a teen, you could set your watch by my exagerated emotional responses and unreasonable responses. Just 1 to 3 days a month but what torture those days were for me, not to mention my loved ones. It continued on into my mariage (I am long divorced) I remember how everything was so emotionally traumatic. Like I wouldn't be able to survive these feelings. For the last 10 years my emotions, therefore my life, has been more balanced, more normal, thank God. I have a home based business, (coincidentally, for 10 years) In some ways my life was able to really begin once I started taking the Depo. Now, if I am really angry, it's because I am really angry, not some minor thing blown out of proportion. And if I am overdue a few days on my Depo shot, I can tell, because someone has cut me off on the interstate and 5 hours later, when I realize I am still fuming about it and fantasizing about his demise in my mind, I think, "why am I still mad about...Oh!..what's the date?" (Just like my ex-husband). No cramps, No pads, No homicides or suicide. Love this drug. Can't live without it.
Can't Live Without It.... I started taking Depo for birth control and it changed my life. The absence of all the syptoms that I thought women were "supposed to have" made me discuss it in more depth with friends and medical professionals and discover that the problems I had been having were not the norm. Now I take Depo for my PMS. Not having my period is a fabulous side effect. I think ALL women should take it, unless you are trying to get pregnant. Particularly when I was a teen, you could set your watch by my exagerated emotional responses and unreasonable responses. Just 1 to 3 days a month but what torture those days were for me, not to mention my loved ones. It continued on into my mariage (I am long divorced) I remember how everything was so emotionally traumatic. Like I wouldn't be able to survive these feelings. For the last 10 years my emotions, therefore my life, has been more balanced, more normal, thank God. I have a home based business, (coincidentally, for 10 years) In some ways my life was able to really begin once I started taking the Depo. Now, if I am really angry, it's because I am really angry, not some minor thing blown out of proportion. And if I am overdue a few days on my Depo shot, I can tell, because someone has cut me off on the interstate and 5 hours later, when I realize I am still fuming about it and fantasizing about his demise in my mind, I think, "why am I still mad about...Oh!..what's the date?" (Just like my ex-husband). No cramps, No pads, No homicides or suicide. Love this drug. Can't live without it.
didn't like the side effects Too many side effects
I did not like this I guess you could say that this worked in the fact that I ended up getting cystic acne which left me with a few good scars on my forhead. I also developed depression from the shot. It worked for me for the first few months, but then I started to bleed irregularly all the time. Therefore I was not having sex and not getting pregnant.
after effects of depo provera I was taking depo prover injection shots for about 3 years and decided to stop. I wanted to get pregnant within the next 6 months. I had heard that after taking the depo for so long it could take months untill i was able to get pregnant. My appointment to take the shot has been 3 weeks now. I am not taking it anymore or any other birth control. However, i have had feelings of nausea, discoloration in my urine and have not yet started my menstruel cycle along with other side affects in my stomach. Because of the after side affects i have taken 2 pregnancy test which have been negative thinking maybe i'm pregnant but that could not be possible not so soon. I'm 31 years old! could this be a side affect from the depo provera?
Caused Osteoporosis? I was on this medication for 8 years. The medication worked well for contraceptive however, it did not help with Endometriosis. Couple years ago, I end up diagnosed with Endometriosis. Then last year, I received a new diagnosis. Now I have Osteoporosis. Be aware with this medication.
Caused Osteoporosis? I was on this medication for 8 years. The medication worked well for contraceptive however, it did not help with Endometriosis. Couple years ago, I end up diagnosed with Endometriosis. Then last year, I received a new diagnosis. Now I have Osteoporosis. Be aware with this medication.
Hated it It made me gain about 20 pounds, lose all my libido and lubrication, and boy, was I hard to around while I was on it. It must take forever to get out of your system, too, because my periods did not return for over a year after my last shot. I would not recommend Depo at all.
Wonderful! I started on depo some years ago, and I can't imagine being without it. I've been on it longer than I actually had my menstrual cycle, so I don't experience that "akwardness" about my body that others claim they have. There's nothing more pleasing to me than knowing that I don't have to soak my panties in the sink, or make midnight trips to the nearest open store for feminine products. Another great thing.. I don't suffer from any PMS symptoms. The main reason depo was decided was because a.) I'm a smoker, and it doesn't pose the same risk as the pill does, and b.) it's so much easier to not forget to ge it. It's not that birth control pills are hard to remember, it's just that they're so easy to forget!
Wonderful! I started on depo some years ago, and I can't imagine being without it. I've been on it longer than I actually had my menstrual cycle, so I don't experience that "akwardness" about my body that others claim they have. There's nothing more pleasing to me than knowing that I don't have to soak my panties in the sink, or make midnight trips to the nearest open store for feminine products. Another great thing.. I don't suffer from any PMS symptoms. The main reason depo was decided was because a.) I'm a smoker, and it doesn't pose the same risk as the pill does, and b.) it's so much easier to not forget to ge it. It's not that birth control pills are hard to remember, it's just that they're so easy to forget!
Quick and Effective The Depo shot has been the easiest way for me to take birth control. I only need to worry about it once every three months and I don't have to deal with the hassle of my period every month anymore. The downsides though are that my breast got much smaller and I have less of a sex drive.
I loved it until I tried to conceive I was diagnosed with Endometriosis at 18. I was put on the Depo shot to relieve the pain, as well as to stop periods until I was ready to conceive a child. (Every period worsens the condition of Endometriosis). The shot worked like a charm, no periods, slight libido change and dryness, but overall, I was relieved of all endometriosis symptoms, and it was very effective birth control. I got married in the fall of 2005 and we decided that we wanted to have a child, so I went to my appointment for my shot and told my doctor that I wanted to have a child and went on without taking the shot. I began having a menstrual periods, and they came closer and closer together, and I am now having periods every week, that last anywhere from 4 to 8 days! At that point I went back to the doctor and told her so I was put on medication that was supposed to make me ovulate (and have regular periods) and it hasn't. I have been dealing with constant periods for five months now, and no baby. I had no idea this would happen. I only put my story out there so women know what they are getting into. This is awful. If anyone reading this had any problems, post your stories! Let women know what they could potentially be doing to themselves. We have to stick together.
I loved it until I tried to conceive I was diagnosed with Endometriosis at 18. I was put on the Depo shot to relieve the pain, as well as to stop periods until I was ready to conceive a child. (Every period worsens the condition of Endometriosis). The shot worked like a charm, no periods, slight libido change and dryness, but overall, I was relieved of all endometriosis symptoms, and it was very effective birth control. I got married in the fall of 2005 and we decided that we wanted to have a child, so I went to my appointment for my shot and told my doctor that I wanted to have a child and went on without taking the shot. I began having a menstrual periods, and they came closer and closer together, and I am now having periods every week, that last anywhere from 4 to 8 days! At that point I went back to the doctor and told her so I was put on medication that was supposed to make me ovulate (and have regular periods) and it hasn't. I have been dealing with constant periods for five months now, and no baby. I had no idea this would happen. I only put my story out there so women know what they are getting into. This is awful. If anyone reading this had any problems, post your stories! Let women know what they could potentially be doing to themselves. We have to stick together.
not worth it! The first time I was on depo, it was only for one shot that lasted three months. The side-effects were minimal. After the birth of my second child, I went on depo again. After the second shot, I experienced severe side effects including lack of sex drive, depression, extreme moodiness. The combination of PPD (post-partum depression), borderline PD, and Depro-Prevara is dangerous! I wish I would have done more research on it, and gone with another birth-control method.
I thought I was crazy!! I have been on depo for about 2 yrs now and have gained 25lbs. I talked to my dr within the first year about my weight-gain concerns, not even realizing it could have been the depo, and was told it was just natural and I needed to exercise more. She didn't get that my exercising habits had not changed one bit and I had actually started to eat less to try to lose the weight, but was still packing on 10lbs. It sucks when each season comes and your clothes from the year before don't fit anymore! I just happened onto this site and I am so grateful! I had no idea it was the depo and will NOT be getting my next shot, I'll try another birth control method. Also, I had no clue that this was to blame for my lack of sex drive and my sudden dryness. It really upsets me that my doctor didn't tell me any of these things before she put me on it. I've moved recently and no longer see that dr, thankfully!
new to depo, but HATE it so far Only been on the depo for a few days, but my body is reacting like I took a severe beating. My endo cramps are worse than ever, my moods are on a roller coaster at best, and I'm hungry all the bloody time. Not to mention that as I'm typing this my fiancé (who is doing his best to be understanding) is currently asleep on our couch because I have rebuffed him sexually more times this week than I have in our entire relationship. Not sure what to do....the endo is really bad, and the docs think this is best, but so far I give it a HUGE thumbs down. Anyone with advice PLEASE feel free to respond.
great option for long-term birth control I didn't gain any weight or suffer from any of the common side-effects. What I did notice was very bad vaginal atrophy (makes sex very painful because it's like being menopausal) - had to start taking another med for that, but it's still worth it once that medicine kicked in. The irregular bleeding was pretty annoying in the first few months - including one episode that lasted a month - but by my 4th injection I had no periods at all, just extremely rare, light spotting, which is great.
DEPO SHOT! NOT GOOD IDEA I AM GETTING THE DEPO SHOT BECAUSE I AM 35 AND A SMOKER, AND THEY TOOK ME OFF THE PILL! THEY SAID IT WAS BECAUSE OF MY AGE AND THE FACT THAT I SMOKE. THIS WAS A REALLY BAD IDEA, I HAVE BEEN BLEEDING FOR 3 MONTHS STRAIGHT, THEY SAID THAT HAPPENS SOMETIMES. I AM GIVING THIS MESS 3 MORE MONTHS AND I QUIT. I AM JUST GOING TO GO IN AND HAVE MY TUBES TIED. I AM TIRED OF ALL THIS. I HAVE NO SEX DRIVE AT ALL. I HAVE ALWAY BEEN THIN HOWEVER I HAVE GAINED 6 POUNDS AND HAVE NEVER WEIGHED THIS IN MY LIVE, I HAVE MAJOR ANXIEY ATTACKS WHICH I HAD TO GET MEDS FOR AND MY MOOD SWINGS ARE PAST TREMENDOUS! DONT DO IT!
Depo Provera and Endometriosis I have found that treatment with Depo Provera is very effective. I've had very little break through bleeding and no cramps. It has been very effective in treating my endometriosis, which I've suffered from for almost 20 years. I would recommend it to others to ease their suffering.
Deplorable Depo-Provera I understand that this treatment has been successful for many people, but it was horrendous for me! I was being treated for irregular menstrual periods, the DP was not for birth control in my case. The drug stopped my periods altogether, but had terrible side effects. I became depressed, moody (mostly hostile with no warning to myself or others), and felt, in a way I could not explain, that something in my body was wrong. I believe now that what went wrong is my body was being prevented from menstruating, which is very natural to it. As soon as I quit using DP, my moods stabilized rapidly. I have given it a high effectiveness rating, because it did stop the problem of menstrual irregularity for as long as I used it. Going in for the injections was easy, but I hate needles! Perhaps the new form of DP is improved from ten years ago.
Depo-Provera I was on it for 10 years and enjoyed not having periods during that time. I did not like the weight gain. I gained 60 pounds and that is the main reason that I decided to go off it because every year I put on more weight. I did not eat more than usual, but could not take any weight off during that time. My last shot was in January and I got my first menstrual in June which was normal, but the one is July was so long and heavy I went to the dr and he put me on the pill and after about 4 months they sent me to my gyn and he is now starting me on a different hormone so I function during my cycle. I do not want to go back on the shot because of the weight gain. Some of the other disadvantages of the Depo were: headaches, increased depression, lack of sex drive (which by the way came back when I started taking Zoloft for some reason). Also, when I was due for my shot, I got PMS something terrible, but once I got the shot again, I was fine. So I guess with all medications, there are advantages and disadvantages.
menstrual symptoms eases breast pain and i had minimal cramps
made me feel worse I didnt like Depo, it to me is like a bad kind of steroid. I had bad acne and weight gain on this. I would recommend Mircette. Depo is a masculinizing hormone, it didnt work well for my body, and most people dont seem to like it becuase of its lousy side effects. its a very powerful drug, with lasting effects for many months till it leaves your body.
I know how it works! It kills your sex drive, and therefore, you don't get pregnant. I took it once, but couldn't do it again. I didn't have a period, which didn't upset me, but I also didn't want to have sex the entire time it was in my system.
Depo is a life saver!! I have had hormonal migraines for 13 years along with PMS. After trying everything out there, my doctor recommended trying the depo shot for birth control. I was tired of taking BC pills so I gave it a try. I am in my 3rd month since I have had the shot and I have not had any migraines, or PMS symptoms, and I have not had a period since the shot. The cost of Depo is cheaper than the pill, it is also nice to not have the worry of taking the pill everyday. The only side effect that I have noticed is my face has had more breakouts. I HIGHLY recommend this if you are having menstrual/hormonal migraines. I wish I would have known about this a long time ago, it would have saved me a from a lot of suffering.
Depo is a life saver!! I have had hormonal migraines for 13 years along with PMS. After trying everything out there, my doctor recommended trying the depo shot for birth control. I was tired of taking BC pills so I gave it a try. I am in my 3rd month since I have had the shot and I have not had any migraines, or PMS symptoms, and I have not had a period since the shot. The cost of Depo is cheaper than the pill, it is also nice to not have the worry of taking the pill everyday. The only side effect that I have noticed is my face has had more breakouts. I HIGHLY recommend this if you are having menstrual/hormonal migraines. I wish I would have known about this a long time ago, it would have saved me a from a lot of suffering.
Depo is a life saver!! I have had hormonal migraines for 13 years along with PMS. After trying everything out there, my doctor recommended trying the depo shot for birth control. I was tired of taking BC pills so I gave it a try. I am in my 3rd month since I have had the shot and I have not had any migraines, or PMS symptoms, and I have not had a period since the shot. The cost of Depo is cheaper than the pill, it is also nice to not have the worry of taking the pill everyday. The only side effect that I have noticed is my face has had more breakouts. I HIGHLY recommend this if you are having menstrual/hormonal migraines. I wish I would have known about this a long time ago, it would have saved me a from a lot of suffering.
It will make you fat i gained about 25 lbs per shot, and I only took two which means I am carrying around an extra 50 lbs for no reason. I would highly recommend against anyone putting themselves through that!
Weight gain Honestly I really regret going this method. I was very moody and gained 35 lbs. I have lost most of that weight, but it has been difficult getting it all off. It was convenient to just get the shot and not have to worry about taking a pill, inserting a ring, breaking a condom, etc... but the weight gain and moodiness was not worth all that. Also, when I went off the ring I bled for 3 months straight. 3 MONTHS! It just threw my entire system off. I do not recommend this method. I hear that overall it's not a good method to use according to research about long term effects on your bones and cancer.
Terrible I gained 10 lbs with each dose and couldn't lose a bit of it. Totally screwed up my system and is believed to have caused my thyroid issues which later cleared up after I got pregnant and got my body back to "normal".
injections I was on the depo shot for a year...it didn't help much at all.
almost worse than the endo at one point, i actually felt like i was going to bleed to death. had to go on multiple rounds of oral estrogen/progesteren to try to control the bleeding. made me extremely anxious, like i could jump out of my own skin. made me hungry enough to eat my own arm with some ketchup. i would still like to punch the doc who prescribed it, because i asked VERY specific questions about potential side-effects, and he either was uninformed, or a blatant liar.
Time-delayed effects? I've been getting the shot for 5 years now. I started right after my second child was born, and about a year later was diagnosed with endometriosis. I was told just to stay on the depo - that apparently I already had endo and just didn't know it. I got a little moody every 3 months, periods stopped almost immediately and never came back. In the last 9 months, I've suddenly started having almost all of the perimenopausal symptoms (I'm only 25!). I started to research the depo, and found that many of my other chronic problems could also be from the depo. I've gained 20 pounds in 6 months despite being hypoglycemic - the only time I ever weighed this much was 9 months pregnant with my second kid! I have no energy, ache and hot flash like an old lady (no offense to anyone out there! =) ), and have absolutely NO libido. I've started an herbal program in the last few days to try to detox - at this point I don't even know if I have endo anymore. I just want this poison out of my body, and I don't know if I will ever get there. For everyone who thinks depo is great, so did I.... Be VERY careful.
I Regreat Taking Depo-Provera so long I was on Depo-Provera Injections to control endometriosis for several years back in the 1980's. Though the only side effect at the time for me was some bloating, I find now 17 years after my last injections, that my bone density is VERY low and I am at serious risk of Osteoperosis. I'm only 43, so when I heard the test results I was shocked. It is only today that I find out that this was a side effect of the Depo-Provera that was unknown at the time I was taking the drug.
Hormone Therapy: Depo-Provera I underwent Depo-Provera injections many years ago (in my early 20's) and although they did seem to help with pain management, the shots caused my moods to go "over the edge" and in turn eventually I became very, very depressed. I am still "fighting" the depression all these years later. I don't care for those injections due to what's happened to me.
Depo-Provera I was on Depo-Provera for 3 1/2yrs, however I did not bleed for 5years. Not a good option for those wanting to fall pregnant in the near future. Terrible side effects, severe depression and weight gain, still had pain, the only bonus was not having to worry about periods, I nearlly forgot I was a woman at times.
Fatty McDrug I gained 30 pounds over a period of a few years - I insisted that it was the drug - and doctors kept saying it was because it increased my appetite - but it didn't, I actually stopped craving chocolate and other things I normally crave even. I wasn't eating more - it was just making me hold on to weight. I tried to get rid of it and my weight would not budge until I stopped taking it. I don't think it's worth it. It doesn't make you feel normal. Why can't they make a drug that doesn't do this crap to us? If it were a man taking it - it would make you lose weight and make your penis grow!! I don't recommend it!
life saver! I have been using depo-provera for around 2 years now. I had tried it once before when I was 18 and as soon as I had the injection I did not have any more periods for the 9 months I was getting injections. Someone told me some disturbing rumors they had heard and I went off of it. About 6 months later (my period had returned after 2 weeks of discontinuing injections) I couldn't handle the pain anymore. Life is not about laying in bed wishing you were dead for a week every month, and it is not acceptable to faint constantly during that week either! Went back on depo and had side effects for the first six months (mood swings, irritability, and 5 months of having my period pretty much constantly) however the cramps I was having were NOTHING compared to what I was used to. On the 6th month the bleeding stopped and I have been happy ever since. I do have to have to injection every 10 weeks though as I have a high metabolism and it seems to cause spotting around that time, but still only very minor cramps. I am going to get a bone density test now that that issue has been brought to light but keeping my fingers crossed that I am fine, I don't know if I could tolerate having those cramps again.
Depo Provera = Continuous Break-Through Bleeding The FDA has recently released information that Provera users experience bone density depletion, which is a new finding! I bleed 4 out of the 6 months on Depo-Provera! As bleeding increases the amount of pain endo patients suffer - this was the least-effective treatment I've tried. The fact that the FDA is just now coming out with bone density depletion statics should be duly noted by those considering this treatment!
Depo Provera I have been getting the shot for five months now, and it is working really well for me. The only drawback so far is some moodiness. I am a little concerned about it's long term effects, but for right now I am so pleased that it relieved most of my pain!
destroyed me I don't know how anyone could say this was a miracle drug. I took it for birth control. No problems before I started taking it. I just wanted something easy & effective. I was on it for 13 months. I gained from 106 lb. to 168 lbs. and by the time I came off, I was dragging my right leg and in excrutiating pain. I thought I was suffering from a back problem. As it turns out.. I was 27 years old with severe endometriosis. At 28 I had to have a total hysterectomy, with the belief that I was cured. What a Lie!!! I am suffering again with the pain in my back & stomache. I am on Depo-estrodial shots 1x a month, & up to 2 1/2 cc (just for hormonal balance). All the doctors would tell me is that it is "You must have had it before the depo provera and not realized it". One of these days someone will come out and admit that it actually advances it. That is usually the way it goes. I don't recommend anyone EVER going on it.
Depo-Provera nightmare... This was the first treatment I had for endometriosis, nine years ago. I used Depo-Provera for 6 months in a row, which were probably the WORST six months of my entire life. It helped minimally with the pain, and the side effects were unbelievable. I became so depressed that I did nothing but eat, sleep, and cry. I gained around 30 pounds while I was on it. My sex drive completely disappeared. And to top it all off, I had several bleeding episodes lasting anywhere from a week to a month at a time. By the time the second shot wore off, I had been bleeding non-stop for 28 days. I don't think there's enough money in the world to get me to take this drug again.
Depo-provera and epilepsy Thank God I was hemorrhaging, and my Practitioner suggested depo to stop the bleeding...I have had non controllable seizures for 24 years, and have been on every med out there...When I received the Depo, I went completely seizure free!!! For two years now! so the Combination of Phenobarbital and depo-provera saved my life!
Horrible! Depo caused weight gain, vicious mood swings, and breakthrough bleeding for the whole time I was on it. Also if you have any sort of depressive or bipolar disorders discuss them immediately with your Ob-gyn before attempting to take any form of depo as it may interact with other treatments.
3 Years on Depo Provera and no looking back I started on Depo when I was 22 because I couldn't tolerate any other type of contraceptive. I had been bleeding for over 12 months on the pill, 21 days bleeding on the pill then when I was off, i wouldn't bleed at all ! Depo has been my life saver, I had no spotting, no breakthrough bleeding, I do get slight symptoms of PMS just before my next injection is due. After more than 3 years I have had no problems but will review this as a contraceptive method in 2 years. I would recommend to anybody to at least try it, they could be as lucky as I was !
I've got my life back! I've seen all the horror stories on this site and others. I don't know if I'm the luckiest woman on earth (which I don't think is true) or if I'm just reacting better to it than others. I have had no side effects. I spotted for two weeks at the end of my first 3 months, but since then have had no breakthrough bleeding. Once in a while, I'll get a slight cramp when my normal period would be, but it's more like a twinge and I can take that a lot better than what I used to deal with. My endometreosis caused me intestinal problems (it seemed like IBS to doctors) and severe cramps. I get the shot in my "low hip" (read: butt). I've never heard of it going in the arm. Perhaps this makes a difference; maybe the fat cells in the butt slow down side effects? If you get a bad stick, it stings for about an hour and a half. Usually, it will feel like a bruise for about two days afterward. I just had my tetanus booster, and this is nothing compared to that. Also, since the needle is a bit thicker than others other shots with thin needles don't hurt as much! :) I've got a friend whose been on this for 9 years; she's had no problems either. I guess this is kind of hit and miss for certain people, but I'll never go back to pills.
hated it! I took DepoProvera for 9 months and truly in my heart believe it was one of the triggers of my fibromyalgia (there are theories behind this, I am not making it up) not to mention my divorce. It did not stop my pain. Because I continued to bleed, they upped my shots to every month from every 3 months. I gained a tremendous amount of weight. Totally lost my sex drive. I felt I got no trade off benefits. I had much better experience taking birth control pills continuously without so many horrible side effects. The only upside was I was under care at a Naval hospital, and because my husband was a medic, he could give me the shots and I didn't have to deal with the clinic. Also, because of the military I did not have to pay for it. A good thing because even free I don't think it was worth it. I never received any relief from my pelvic pain.
Bad experience I would take it for two weeks at a time. At first I thought it was going to work, but then I started bleeding more and it would not stop for over a month. Then only thing that stopped the bleeding was Estrotone. This was over three years ago and I'm not sure of the dose.
Depo Provera - the evil alternative I was on Depo Provera for nearly eight years to try and preserve my fertility (probably not a good idea to take it for any other reason). It did help slow down the endo but the side effects were terrible. They got to the point where I could no longer tolerate this form of treatment. Massive weight gain and hot flashes were the worst. Side effects increased with stress. It amazes me that sane women would take this as a form of birth control (although many later regret it). It is simply not worth the side effects.
depo provera i bled for all three months...i was miserable.
Loving Depo-Provera I love Depo! I've had Endometriosis since I started having periods. It was awful! I was in so much pain that I missed school every month because I was throwing up and writhing in pain. I thought about suicide just to make the pain stop, it was that bad. Three months (one injection) after starting Depo-Prevera I had NO PAIN, because I had no periods. It's great! I gave the "Lack of Side Effects" a score of 8 because the first 3 months I bled continuously, and recently (after a full year of being on it) I have started to spot on occasion. But it's very light and there are no cramps or any other symptoms involved, so I don't mind. And I don't know what it costs because I don't pay for it (my husband is active-duty military, with his health insurance all our medications are free). Yes, the injections hurt but nothing like the Zoladex injections (which I was also on, with no results). Depo feels like a flu shot, and goes in the same place, your arm. Unlike Zoladex which was put into my abdomen. And (I really like this feature) unlike birth control pills, I don't forget to take it--it's once every 3 years with a 2 week window. I love Depo!
Evil If you like: shots, headaches, mood swings, feeling like you are on constant pms, weight gain, high blood pressure, and no periods etc. Then try it. :} I really had a bad time with it, but I do know a couple of women who love it. To add some more info. I went on the depo shot strictly for birth control. I did not know I had endo at the time and I did not have UNBEARABLE periods and pms until AFTER I quit using it. I stayed on it for 2 years because I was told that the side effects were minimal and I did not realise it was the shot causing them. But within about a month of being off of it my blood pressure went from 170/110 to 120/70, I lost the 10 pounds, no more mood swings, and the constant headache went away. Then the real pain began. I was told after that the pms and extreme period pain would go away once my hormones balanced back out. After 3 years of going doctor to doctor, I finally found one that would listen and diagnosed my endo. I am told Depo-Provera is used to help endo patients and my new Dr offered it to me to help, even after he knew my history with it. It seems to me that it fed the disease rather than helped me. Anyone thinking of using any hormone treatment really needs to research each drug. If I had heard any story like this, I would not have tried it. I am not trying to scare anyone, and I do not like to be so negative, but I had a very bad experience.
Break through bleeding This was used to stop me bleeding, but it didn't work. I bled for two years straight, and the endometriosis growth was unchecked. Depo-provera caused me to have violent mood swings and a huge amount of weight gain.
Depo Provera to treat Endometriosis/PCOS I used Depo Provera for 7 1/2 years to try to calm many hormonal symptoms and pain associated with endometriosis and PCOS. For the most part, while I was on the shot I had very little pain as my cycle stopped completely after the first injection. However this is not a cure. And it has many terrible side effects that do NOT outweight the benifits. I gained a significant amount of weight, and went from a healthy size to obese in less than a year. I also developed acne, and became emotionally numb. I also developed racing heart and panic attacks. As I used the shot for more than three years my bone density has dropped, and I now have bone chips behind my kneecap, and my teeth are a mess. Now I am trying to get the drug out of my body so I can try to get my health back. The symptoms I am suffering now are even worse than before I quit. I have even more migraines, all kinds of muscle/joint pain and spasms, sore breasts (constant), and ovarian pain. I developed acne from Depo Provera as well, and it is only getting worse since I have quit. My hunger has increased yet again, and my metabolism continues to drop because there is no way to get Depo Provera out of the body once it's there. I would never suggest that any woman take this drug to treat health problems. Only natural treatments can help. We should not be messing with our hormones like this! I got off lucky so far. I know of many women who have suffered a great deal more than I have.
Lots of side effects I regret having tried the Depo-Provera shot. I know that it can be helpful for many women, but was not one of them. It made me irrational, crabby, irritable, and I gained some weight, but not a lot. I had hot flashes very bad, and they still (over 3 years later) have not gone away.A single three-month dose of Depo-Provera made me bleed heavily and painfully for NINE MONTHS STRAIGHT. I concieved my second daughter immediately after this bleeding stopped. She was born 5 weeks early and has birth defects including Chiari Malformation (a brain malformation where the base of the brain sits in the spinal column rather than in the skull as it should) and labial adhesions. Although I have no way to prove it, it is my personal belief that these problems were caused by traces of depo-provera remaining in my body at conception, NINE MONTHS after ONE THREE_MONTH DOSE. I would urge caution to anyone thinking of trying Depo-Provera for endo, especially if you plan on trying to have children afterwards. Read everything you can find on it before you make your final decision.
Progesterone Worsened My Depression & Anxiety More than half a dozen doctors (gynecologists, psychiatrists, and internists) suggested that my depression and panic attacks were "menstrually" related. The first gynecologist prescribed Provera (synthetic progesterone). Of course, I became hopeful again! Here was an approach to my "moods" that hadn't been introduced to me before. To make a long story short (well, shorter!), after a few days of taking this capsule, I became very short-tempered, volatile, and had suicidal ideation. I really wanted to (in my thoughts only) commit homicide and suicide. A person I knew at the time was sometimes quite inconsiderate about being on time, keeping dates, etc. After about 5 days on Provera, I literally chased him out of my house and was very vocal about it (not my normal behavior). Unfortunately, at the time I did not correlate my behavior with the new medication. I just blamed myself for being even more "untreatable" than ever before. I even checked myself into the hospital for "help." Despite the horrific hospital experience (I never should have "checked in"), I was feeling much better when the progesterone left my system. About two years later, yet another "women's health specialist" prescribed progesterone. By then, I had made a faint connection between the drastic mood change and the progesterone. I related this idea to the doctor. She dismissed my theory, and prescribed a "natural" progesterone cream, claiming that the anger was a result of the first progesterone prescription being of a "synthetic" (NOT, as they say, bio-identical) nature. Well, sure enough the volatile behavior surfaced once again. This time, however, I stopped using the progesterone cream after 3 or so days. Today, on all medical forms and charts of mine, it clearly states "Allergy: Progestins." If I had a dollar for every doctor who read this with rolled eyes. Good news (and you thought this was just a lot of complaining!): On
Progesterone Worsened My Depression & Anxiety More than half a dozen doctors (gynecologists, psychiatrists, and internists) suggested that my depression and panic attacks were "menstrually" related. The first gynecologist prescribed Provera (synthetic progesterone). Of course, I became hopeful again! Here was an approach to my "moods" that hadn't been introduced to me before. To make a long story short (well, shorter!), after a few days of taking this capsule, I became very short-tempered, volatile, and had suicidal ideation. I really wanted to (in my thoughts only) commit homicide and suicide. A person I knew at the time was sometimes quite inconsiderate about being on time, keeping dates, etc. After about 5 days on Provera, I literally chased him out of my house and was very vocal about it (not my normal behavior). Unfortunately, at the time I did not correlate my behavior with the new medication. I just blamed myself for being even more "untreatable" than ever before. I even checked myself into the hospital for "help." Despite the horrific hospital experience (I never should have "checked in"), I was feeling much better when the progesterone left my system. About two years later, yet another "women's health specialist" prescribed progesterone. By then, I had made a faint connection between the drastic mood change and the progesterone. I related this idea to the doctor. She dismissed my theory, and prescribed a "natural" progesterone cream, claiming that the anger was a result of the first progesterone prescription being of a "synthetic" (NOT, as they say, bio-identical) nature. Well, sure enough the volatile behavior surfaced once again. This time, however, I stopped using the progesterone cream after 3 or so days. Today, on all medical forms and charts of mine, it clearly states "Allergy: Progestins." If I had a dollar for every doctor who read this with rolled eyes. Good news (and you thought this was just a lot of complaining!): On
I have had the mirena for almost 3 years, I was having heavy periods and that is why I chose that device. the first 8 months was a little irregular and bothersome since periods became more irregular, but they finally stopped. I have mood swings and irritability , but not severe, I also gained 15 pounds in three years, but I am 50 years old and all that could be part of my menopause. Over all, I have been happy with having it. I do not feel it at all and have no periods. my only concern with this device is weight gain, but like I said, it could be my age, I wish I knew if the Mirena was or was not the reason of those symptoms.
I had my mirena removed last week. This was my second mirena - the first of which I left in longer than it's effective lifespan (6 years). This second mirena I had removed after only one year due to side effects. The insertion of this second mirena was excruciating - maybe that should have been a sign. Following insertion, I felt like I was being poked - pretty severely from time to time - from the inside out. This was despite a completely normal placement of the device according to an ultrasound performed a few weeks after insertion. My partner said it didn't feel like it was in place correctly - he could feel it more than usual. On top of being uncomfortable, I've been down right depressed for the past year - seriously. Maybe it's not the mirena, but only time will tell. I'm so happy I had it removed!
Hi, I have had the Mirena in 3 times. The first time was amazing, no bad side effects and it was put in under anesthetic. Had no cramps or bleeding in 5 years and my endo and cysts had gone. Second time it was ok for a while then it dislodged from my body and stopped work (however I didn't know this) my cysts grew to the sizes of oranges and my endo grew back so it was very painful. I had it taken out and had a break for a few years. I had another put in with my local Dr, OMG the pain was unbearable I vomited, and was in horrific pain for 4 days. I bled every day for 6mths, then they put me on the pill which stopped the bleeding. I've put on 12kgs in a year, and felt depressed, bloated, sore and just not right. I'm having the Mirena removed tomorrow after several attempts to get the Drs to take it out.. Enough is enough!! I'm scared to get it out though, I've heard horrible painful stories..
I had the mirena coil for 3 years - at first I had a mild yeast like infection but then breezed through with no periods and what I thought minimal side effects. HOWEVER throughout this time I starting getting severe (and I mean severe) sinus infections, I had never had them before and over the 2.5 years they progressively got worse and worse. They started to have a hugely detrimental affect on my physical and mental state as I was simply ill every month. I hadn't registered that these could be related to the coil - there is limited research online but I did find some evidence linking mirena To upper respiratory tract infections. Also my doctor pretty much said it was not connected given the low level release from the could BUT having had the coil out for 2+ months and no sinus infections I know it was connected and am flabbergasted I went through so much misery before realising. Please don't suffer as long as i did!
I had Mirena put in after experiencing extremely heavy periods after pregnancy... would soak through a maxi pad within a couple hours. I also had painful insertion of any type. I wasn't sexually active but the internal ultrasounds were not fun. My periods at the time lasted 5-7 days with them being very heavy the first 3-5. I got the Mirena put in under anesthesia bc I needed a D&C And hysteroscopy for significant thickening of my uterine wall. I had bad cramps for 2-3 weeks. Then I only got them with my period, but also got body aches and queasiness that would result in vomiting. It's been 4 months. I have been out of work pretty much every month for menstrual related sickness. It's that debilitating. I also have gained 20lbs, and I spot for nearly 2 weeks after my period. It did stop the painful intercourse, and slowed down the heaviness of my period some, but the body aches, cramps, chills, queasiness/vomiting I get is not worth it. I'm upset bc I really needed something especially for the thickening of my uterus. This just isn't it... going to ask to have it removed at my next gyn appointment. Not looking forward to the pain I'm reading about.
I had this IUD for 11 months and it was the worst 11 months of my life. I got it after my boyfriend and I had a pregnancy scare and it's a very effective contraceptive but the way it made me feel was unbearable. I never got crazy bad cramps during my period but once I got this put in I had unbearable cramps every day, not just during my periods. I got bloated and gained 30 pounds with no change to my diet or exercise routine. I tried eating healthier and exercising more to lose the weight but none of it would come off. I have a high sex drive and this depleted it. I got it removed a week ago and I feel so much better. I'm still waiting for the hopeful weight loss but I'm not bloated anymore, I haven't had a single cramp in a week and IM ON MY PERIOD, and I just feel more awake and comfortable. Everyone's body will react differently to this drug but I would say don't try it. It's not worth the pain.
Doctor suggested I insert mirena to treat heavy periods. Since i didn't have children I had it inserted by obgyn and it was extremely painful. Worst pain i ever experienced. I felt cramps all day that day and kept taking strong pain killers every 2 hours. Early in the morning next day I woke up from severe pain in my belly. I took another pain killer and went straight to the doctor and got it removed. Awful experience. Totally do not recommend it.
I had the mirena placed around 2 this afternoon after having a pap smear, I must say having it placed was quite uncomfortable, not painful, but just alot of pressure and cramping. I continued to have some mild cramping the rest of the day, but nothing too bad. I have had the mirena once before after I had my first child and never had any complications with it! I had it removed a couple months later only because my husband would complain about being able to feel the strings. Other than his complaints about the strings, I personally had no side effects or issues with the mirena. Just be prepared after having it place to take it easy, take some tylenol or advil, a warm bath, and a heating pad! The first couple days will feel like the beginning of your period, but after that you will forget about it even being there! I highly recommend the mirena if you have at least one child, or suffer from heavy menstrual bleeding.
I had mirena for a little over a year and experienced everything others are saying it was horrible I was so tired headaches all the time and very nasty mood swings depression and anxiety that I never had before after getting it taken out I bleed for almost a year straight I am currently on my third obgyn bc I know something is still after they got the bleeding to stop I now don't get a period at all
I was using Mirena for birth control, and every month it was a yeast infection or a UTI. Needless to say I was pretty uncomfortable. I got it out two days ago and feel SO much better.
I had it in twice in 12 years. First one, for 3 and a half years, second for a little over 2. Awful! Got a lot of migraines - very unusual for me, got into depression, felt really low, had panic attacks, gained weight, lost hair, suffered from PMS a lot, lost libido, lost energy, felt really tired in and out. The overall health got really bad. I would advise everyone: girls, try some other options, this one isn't worth it.
Woah! Big difference just in one day taking it out! I got this right after my baby in December 2018. I definitely experienced anger and unrational thinking. I also have a pretty good sex drive and that diminishing was pretty interesting! I finally took it out yesterday and I literally felt an immediate relief. Finally feel like I'm not a loony toone! Lol
The reason my girlfriend had to use the Mirena device is not even listed. It was for an excessive menstruation cycle she was experiencing. My comment may get deleted because I am a male and I am obviously not using the device but let me tell you as the boyfriend it has not been a great experience. She started getting these migraines that she never had before. She is always in a mood and snapping at everything and I have to walk around on eggshells. Not to mention she has gained a lot of weight that I hear about constantly that she can't get off. She has been exercising and dieting like mad. And on top of that not to be shallow I just don't want an overweight girlfriend.
Have the mirena a little over 2 years now and it has been the worst decision i ever made,all was well the 1st year and then it went downhill from there,i get period twice a month with some spotting inbetween,very low sex drive,mood swings,feeling tired all the time and feeling very low,i definitely do not recommed it and will be looking to get it removed asap!!
I don't recommend it at all the worst experience in my life I put it on there March 4 and I remove it March 6 the worst week of my life If I could put zeros * I will
I had the Mirena IUD in me for three months. It caused me to bleed every day, severe stomach swelling and pain where I could not walk or touch my stomach. I bled heavier on my period and it made my period come sooner, 28 days to 14 days. The pain, pressure, and swelling was worse on my period and I could only eat a half cup of food. If I ate anything more I had breathing problems. I was unable to bend over and touch my toes or tie my shoes. I went down four notches on my belt and had trouble fitting my clothes. After one hour after the removal of my IUD mirena, my stomach pain / pressure went away and I could walk and touch my stomach. I could bend over and touch my toes. My entire body felt normal and I could fit my clothes. My doctor told me Mirena does not cause any side effects and I had problems getting my obgyn doctor to remove it.
First I got the Mirena inserted in the summer I had really bad cramps after it being inserted, I was not able to return to work. A few months later I started getting severe Cystic Acne on my face it was so painful and awful. I cut out dairy from my diet which helped a lot. But then I started to notice acne on my back, which I never had before in my life.... It is so painful and itchy. I refuse to go out in public with my back exposed it is so bad, which has really affected my self esteem. I decided to have the Mirena removed after talking to my naturopath after she advised that it was a common side effect. I am really dissapointed as I paid for this IUD with my personal money as my insurance did not cover for it. I had to get it removed before even a year of having it. It is not for every women and I DO NOT recommend it. I just feel like bawling my eyes out just looking at my back in the mirror!!!!!
I just got the Mirena inserted a half hour ago and I just wanted to say it was not nearly as bad as I expected. I went in expecting it to be pretty painful. If I had to estimate, I'd say it was a 4-5 out of 10 (10 being worst ever pain) on the pain scale. I have never had kids and I am under 20 y/o. I took acetaminophen 45-60 mins prior and was not given a cervical medicine the night before. The woman performing was very young and inexperienced, but had a more experienced doctor talk her through it. I was scared for so many reasons, one being that she is inexperienced and I have never given birth, but it was honestly NOT THAT BAD. I made some noises (pretty uncontrollable) throughout, but it was moreso uncomfortable than painful. If you've had bad cramps, it's like that but with more pulling and tugging. If it helps, just remember it's a full feeling not a painful/sharp feeling. If your doctor recommends it, just have an open mind, the feeling is weird but not terrible I promise. I'll update if I have any side-effects or issues
I've been on this type of birth control for a few weeks now, so far it's been great for me up until this afternoon, bad cramping at work. I hope it goes away.
I've had my Mirena for 2 years now. I've had it placed for birth control and to control my PCOS. This has honestly saved my life. My periods have stopped, my cramps have subsided significantly, I don't have to worry about birth control, and this is the only birth control I have tried that does not raise my triglycerides, which I have to worry about as a diabetic. This is definitely not the best option for everyone but definitely talk to your doctor about this if you are considering a long term birth control option.
Almost 8 months of having this IUD inserted I'm having it removed in two days. First the pros effective for not getting pregnant. Now the cons since having Mirena I've not only had uncontrollable mood swings I've also put on a whopping 25 pounds with no change in diet or exercise routine. For the past 2 and a half months I've been desperately trying to lose the 25 pounds I put on to no avail! I've went as far to change my diet to be more strict and clean even threw a personal trainer into the mix to help kick me back into shape. Nothing I have tried has worked! I can't wait to have this device removed but I will miss the reassurance knowing I wouldn't get pregnant nor would be while on it.
Hi all I'm thinking getting Mirena put in by my doctor had tubal ligation done and after that I haven't been the same my periods are so heavy I get really moody and Angry which I have no control over I'm on the pill but sometimes it dose the job and other times it doesn't not sure what to do here?? any advice would help ??
With all the negative reviews on here I have to say my experience with the Mirena has only been pleasant. I had my first one taken out today and another one inserted immediately. I honestly thought I would have an unpleasant experience taking it out and have one inserted immediately but I have to say that it was good. During extraction, I hardly even felt anything and during insertion just a sharp period like pain that goes away as fast as it came. I have to also include that my gynae, Dr Lood Labuschagne is the reason for my good experience. I would definitely recommend every woman to use this contraception method as I had absolutely no side effects (periods also disappeared). Now tell me, how can I not be happy. Thanks Mirena
I am 43 yr old woman with 3 children. I got on Mirena about 3 1/2 years ago to help control heavy periods and extreme cramping. I noticed that my hair started getting thinner and thinner within the last year. Started taking vitamins for hair, skin and nails. My face and skin is blotchy, acne increased. Mood swings, irritability and aggressive behavior was off the charts. No sex drive, and still cramping. Extremely sporadic light flow 4-5 day of the month. Discharge or smell will not go away, no matter what I did. LOOSING YOUR HAIR IS NOT WORTH IT- I WOULD RATHER FIND AN ALTERNATIVE OPTION!
The mirena was great with controlling my periods, my terrible cramps, & preventing pregnancy BUT while using it both times I had constant horrible cystic acne, weight gain, & poor to absolutely no libido. After a mth of having it removed I've lost those 10-15lbs, my acne is resolving, & my libido is back! I know all medications have side effects. It helped with the dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, & preventing pregnancy BUT I'm extremely happy with having it removed!
I chose to take Mirena because I could not seem to find a pill that would work for me. I got Mirena put in in October, and almost instantly I began gaining weight. I started to lose hair, my depression got worse and I still decided to give it a chance. Over the five month span I had it, I gained 10 lbs a month with no change in diet. I had it removed yesterday and I'm hoping for the best but I would not recommend this to anyone EVER
I had the IUD in for 5 years and I thought it was wonderful because i never had a period. After more research I realized my acne problems and hair loss was because of the Mirena. I had them remove and the doctor tried to convince to [put another one in, but I refused. It's now been been almost 5 months and I feel so much more mentally and emotionally healthier. I didn't even correlate my mental health with the Mirena. I had to go on anxiety medication and antidepressant last year. I felt like I was losing my mind. I enjoyed nothing, was sad, very anxious all the time. I did not enjoy sex. My medication made my symptoms worse, so I stopped after a couple of months. It wasn't until I had the IUD removed and it was a couple months later when I felt SO MUCH BETTER!! Never again will I use an IUD again or anything hormonal. And for anyone reading this and thinking they will use the Copper IUD since it doesn't have hormones. Look into copper in your body, it is bad for you too.
This can cause hormone imbalance or estrogen dominance (which evidently manifests itself in symptoms like.. and i quote "consistent sadness, hopelessness, and / or anxiety, mood swings & irritability, trouble concentrating, feeling of always being tired, excessive sleeping or insomnia, changes in appetite, loss of interest in once enjoyable actives and finally, thoughts of suicide”. The sex hormones used in the mirena - estrogen and progesterone - impact emotional and cognitive processing (which then impacts your ability to regulate your mood). I haven't been able to control my emotions!!! It's like im in a constant state of pregnant woman hysteria. A lawyer will never touch this and your doctors will push it relentlessly becuase they are being paid to do so. Please read up and evaluate whether this is right for you - for me the emotional implications have been severe and I cannot wait to get this demonic thing out of my damn uterus.
Well the Mirena does it's job by keeping you from getting pregnant and YES EVRYONE is different, I had mine for a year and just got it out last week. but here are the cons of the Mirena... 1. It made me get really bad acne (And I havent had acne since i was a teen!) 2. You get mild cramps every now and then. 3. Period was allover the place. I would have it one month then I would skip a month then have it twice a month sometimes. All in all the acne for me just wasnt worth having the mirena. Its been a little over a week that I have gotten it taken out and My skin is back to normal.
I have several small and mid-size fibroids and having heavy periods. Also have chronic back pain so right before periods, my back gets worse with flare ups. My gynocologist in LA (who works for the reputable university hospital) recommended Mirena as if it's a miracle and did not disclose any side effects even when asked. I went through anesthesia to have it inserted due to vasa vagal which will cost me alot of $$. After insertion, i had nausea, bleeding for days, sudden headaches, cramping, sharp back pain and fainted 3 days post insertion while walking my pet. Its been 4 days now and still bleeding. I then started review of all lawsuits and blogs, and studies claiming increase risk of breast cancer, so now sickened about why my doctor whom I trusted so much did not bother to even mention that there have been serious side effects reported to the FDA. There have been thousands of reports, and so many lawsuits and settlements! I will have it removed asap! Which is worse: risk your life with so many life threatening ailments or have heavy periods? How dare doctors recommend this as if like a miracle!?! Discusting at best!
Had every type of pill prior to my first child. After he was born, Mirena was recommended to me by my OBGYN and it was the best thing ever. No periods once inserted which means no debilitating pain or strong pain killers every month and only minor discomfort every year when the dosage decreases. When we decided to to try for a 2nd , only took a couple of months after removal before i was pregnant with our 2nd child. I recommend this to anyone who is able to get it. Best experience ever.
So I have had the Mirena in for four grueling months. I had it put in and had severe cramping for 30+ minutes, it went away after a few Advil but it definitely knocked me out of my rhythm for the day and I ended up in bed sleeping it off for a while. The past four months I have had non-stop bleeding/spotting and heavy mucus. I went and got an ultrasound to check the placement and nothing was wrong, so I decided to ride it out and see if it gets any better. I have had severe mood changes, I get agitated and angry over the smallest thing, when before I was a very go-with-the-flow kinda person. My depression circled back around, which hadn't happened since I started and stopped the pill when I was 18-19. If you can get through the constant bleeding and pain,then maybe it's worth it, but I wouldn't recommend it.
I was 17 when I had it placed. I had been having AWFUL periods as of late, very heavy, very painful. My mother had two Mirena IUDs placed before and they have worked wonderfully for her, so she thought that I should receive one as well to treat my periods and for birth control! The day of the placement was a bit painful. I had bad cramps, to begin with, the IUD placement was like a really bad cramp. I had psyched myself up to that point and thought I was going to die -- my anxiety put me in more pain than was necessary. Take a breath! It barely took THREE MINUTES for my doctor to measure and place my IUD. She was noticeably experienced. After I got it placed I bled very heavily, like a usual period. I continued to bleed for approximately five months. Sometimes it was heavy, sometimes it was light. I have had the IUD coming up on two years and all my bleeding has virtually stopped. I sometimes experience light bleeding, NOTHING compared to before. I totally recommend Mirena for peace of mind, relief for pain, and for easy convenience. It is totally effective for preventing pregnancy. GET IT!
I had the best experience with Mirena! I've had this IUD three times for a total of 13 years. I had it removed because I am in Menopause now. I agree that Mirena is not for everyone however I loved it and it worked out really well for me. After the first year my period stopped and I haven't had another period since removal Sept 2018. I experienced irregular periods in the beginning, although my period was never an issue. I also experienced mild side effects, such as mood swings and I gained a few pounds, headaches, some lower back pain, similar to PMS and wasn't an issue for me. My sex drive became non-existent over time however my husbands was in over-drive Lol therefore it work out well for us. Placement was painless and removal as well, it was uncomfortable and thankfully over quickly. I was totally against using an IUD, I took the pill for decades, my Dr. wanted me off of them and recommended Mirena. I did some research and I was a prime candidate for this IUD and I decided to try it and I am happy I did!
I've been on Mirena for exactly one year now and I have to say the beginnings were challenging but it is all coming back to normal now. The insertion of the coil was one of the worst and most painful thing in my life (and I had broken bones and other diseases before) don't think I am going to go through it again. Over first few months I observed that my skin condition certainly worsened. Never used to have spots, but did now, on my face and neckline. Moods definitely improved and the libido hit the roof, also the intensity and whole sexual experience definitely improved. Bleeding were unpredictable for first few months and now it's almost nothing to the point I get away with liners. Skin improved and everything seems to be coming back to normal. Hardly any period pains and I was one of those who use to bleed like a massacred animal and fainting from pains. I am childless 37 years old
I'm not sure how this product is still in the market. Had it for two months, and my period never stopped, also was constantly draining a heavy mucus. Worse experience ever.
Getting a Mierna implant was the worst decision. It was recommended by a few GPs who said it would be a simple, effective namd relatively pain free option. Implanting it through the ceremony is was excruciating and the whe experience was extremely painful and distressing. As soon as it was implanted I felt sharp pains, light headed and nausea. They kept me in the GPs office for 45 minutes as they were worried about my state. They then sent me home saying if the pain continued to go to the ER. The pain got worse and I began to feel dizzy. An ultrasound at the ER showed my uterus had not been punctured and it was in the correct position. At the ER the device was removed. The pain gradually subsided but I developed a bad infection to hi h required strong antibiotics and a follow up appointment with the Gyno. Apparently my uterus was too small for the device and it was trying to push it out which was causing it the pain.
I've had mirena for about 3 years now. Insertion was painless but my period right after getting it put in lasted for about 3 months!! Once my body regulated things were better. I stopped getting my period after a year and sex life was amazing! It wasn't until year 2 that I started noticing the horrible mood swings, depression, anxiety, an almost non-existent libido, and uncontrollable outbursts. By it being year 3, I wish I could have gone back and got it removed when the symptoms first started because they have definitely only gotten worse. Scheduled an appointment to have it removed. My advice...listen to your body!! For me, not getting pregnant just isn't worth it!
I've had a great experience with Mirena. After a three week medium bleed, then spotting for two weeks it had settled in perfectly! No cramps, no more heavy periods...bliss! I am older and wonder if that's why I've found it so effective, but can highly recommend!!
After having my one and only child I decided I would never do the pill again, but at 29 I wasn't ready to have my husband make birth control permanent, so I tried the Mirena. After my son, my period was super heavy - I experienced a leak to my skirt once which was super embarrassing. I also experienced bad cramping. I tried the Mirena after my friend told me they stopped her periods and I knew the hormones were less and more localized than the pill, so I hoped it wouldn't impact my mood like the pill did. I am now 36 and on my second Mirena after such a good experience. I had only planned to have one, and then make my husband get a vasectomy...however, after having my period go away (some months I have a day or two of very light spotting, but that's all), no cramps, no mood issues, nothing negative...I'm ready to continue Mirena until I'm safely old enough to not get pregnant. I can't feel the thing, it's kept me pregnancy free for 7 years, and I'm saving money and helping the environment by using maybe and average one feminine product every two months when the rare spotting occurs.
I had Mirena inserted 3 months postpartum. I knew it was going to be uncomfortable but I've given birth and it was almost comparable. I had severe cramping for about 24hrs after and haven't stopped bleeding since. That was 3 months ago. Despite eating clean and working out, I have yet to lose any baby weight and I've never had issues losing before. I have headaches, get randomly dizzy, my knees, hips and back are constantly achy. And the mood swings, anger and outbursts are uncontrollable. I feel like I don't have control of my emotions. Not to mention the hair loss, breast tenderness and dip in my milk supply that is now effecting my son. His physical and my mental heath are dipping because of Mirena. I'm going to get it removed tomorrow. Never, ever again
I had the mirena In for 7 years, it was great that I didn't have a period but in nov 18, I started getting severe pelvic pain and felt pressure up through me and also felt like I was going to wet myself all the time and was urinating several times an hour, I had enough at the start of this month and got it removed. All the pain was gone after 2 days, bladder symptoms had cleared, and I feel amazing. I didn't realize it at the time but it was desperately effecting my moods and I would get really angry and agitated at The smallest thing. I am never going to have one of these out in ever again
After my second baby I decided to try Mirena as birth control. It was AWFULLLLLLLL... I want the 7 months back of my life that I ruined because of being on this. It made me a miserable extremely angry and moody person. My husband didn't recognize my personality and I had hot flashes, cramping, random bleeding, bruising and anemia, fatigue, increased anxiety and depression. The day I had it removed, it was as if the angry cloud above my head finally disappeared and my body is finally starting to fully return to normal almost a month later. I still have yet to get my period again so I'm worried it may not return and fear infertility issues in the future. Stay away from Mirena! It was the worst decision I ever made and I wish I could get that time back.
Severe painful side effects. Got pregnant despite using after ultrasound ensuring good placement. Led to miscarriage. String disappeared, had to go deep to retrieve. Would never recommend. Should be banned.
The worst!!! My gyno swore by this process so much I'd think she's getting paid to advertise for Mirena. While on this I had bad mood swings, EXTREME weight gain. In the half year I was on it I pulled on an extra 40lbs. This is the heaviest I've weighed in my life only second to carrying my child. Breast are fuller and sore all the time. I also have spotting all month long that I never had before. I'm definitely displeased with this product. It kept me pregnancy free, but not worth the side effects.
Just entered round 3 of using Mirena. So this would be my eleventh year. Initially got this this because I was forgetting to take bc pills after baby #3 and definitely did not need a #4. The first month was kind of rough with what seemed like a never ending period but after that, I rarely have anything more than a bit of spotting each month. I have friends who have not fared as well as me and some that are in total agreement with me. To each her own! I love the Mirena and wouldn't change back for anything. Life and sex are good and carefree!
NEVER WOULD I EVER RECOMMEND THIS IUD. Insertion didn't hurt, it made me not have a period which was great. It gave me BAD mood swings, depression, anxiety, weight gain. I went from 130 to 200lbs in the 1 year I had the IUD. Sex doesn't feel the same with it in bc you can feel the string. The “Birth control” part of the iud worked but ID RATHER HAVE ANOTHER BABY THAN DEAL WITH THE SIDE EFFECTS. 10/10 DO NOT RECOMMENED.
If you are getting Mirena in the hopes of not having a monthly period you might want to look elsewhere. Not only do I still get a monthly period, but I have spotting often. It's like I have to wear a pad or panty liner every day because you never know when.
I had the Mirena coil fitted in August 2018 for heavy periods. I was informed that it would NOT cause weight gain. The insertion was really painful. Immediately I had major contraction pains which took my breath away. These went on for nearly two months. I also had an insatiable hunger. This lasted for 3 months and then every 2 weeks thereafter. I also bled seriously heavily for the first 3 weeks and then had light bleeding every. Back and hip pain was also a permanent fixture from day 1 of insertion. I also had mood swings which made me feel very anxious and angry. My stomach was ALWAYS bloated and really uncomfortable every day with mild and sometimes severe cramp. I weighed my self. Despite not putting on weight in 3 years and, I'd gained 12 pounds within 4 months of having the coil fitted. It is now January 2019. I've just got back from an appointment to have it removed. My stomach pain has already disappeared. Please think very carefully about having one of these things fitted.
I had Mirena inserted during my laparoscopy. I got diagnosed with severe endometriosis and I have always struggled with depression and anxiety. My periods were long and heavy and I had low iron levels. After Mirena insertion things changed for the better. First thing I noticed is that my mood has changed and my anxiety is gone. I feel relaxed and happy. I had no idea that Mirena could do that especially after all negative reviews. My periods are normal now and I only get slight cramps before. I would highly recommend Mirena because it has changed my life and I can feel myself again. Also, I haven't gain any weight and my skin never looked better. I never want to take my Mirena out!
I've had the Mirena IUD for about 10 months now. Insertion was maybe a 3 on the 1 to 10 pain scale (I have delivered babies), some cramping for the next 24 hours but I was able to work the same day with Tylenol. Spotting for the next 1-2 months and a little extra moodiness during my cycle. Now, I have no spotting, a light period, no big mood swings, clear skin (it did get teenage oily for the first couple months), I also have not gained any weight. Birth Control will always have some sort of side effects, Mirena works well just give it a few months and take Tylenol before getting it.
I'm one of the lucky ones, insertion didn't hurt at all really. Granted I have multiple piercings and tattoos so maybe my pain tolerance is just higher. I went to the gym a couple hours afterwards. Everything was fantastic, I loved my mirena, for a year and a half. My periods stopped which was awesome...but then my hair started falling out and I got acne and gained weight (I don't eat meat or dairy and exercise regularly). I had thick hair when I started using mirena and now it's thin and it better grow back. Would not recommend, it works because no one wants to have sex with you when you have it.
Obgyn told me I would have little discomfort during insertion. Worse pain I have felt in my life. I had a panic attack and almost passed out. 3 months later I started having cramping pain during intercourse and bleeding after. Went to obgyn had tests done and everything came back normal. But yet still bleeding after sex. My period has been super irregular. Light spotting the whole month. It has been nothing but a headache for me and my wallet. I want it out, but I'm afraid of going through that pain again. 10/10 do not recommend
Rating for Birth Control - I had heavy periods throughout my life and they were never ending and bled so much. My gyn suggested Mirena when I was 17, at firsf I was scared to get something put inside me so young. But I was so miserable and after 4 doctor visits my mom and I decided it was the best thing. Since then my periods have decreased 80 %, I do spot sometimes and do have sore breasts but other than that it was a complete success. I've had it for 2 years now and it changed my life. Also is a great way to prevent pregnancy. Would highly recommend for anyone with heavy bleeding and bad cramps
This was the first birth control I ever tried. For birth control it did the job. I had it for about 3 or 4 months and did not get pregnant. However insertion of the iud was one of the worst pains I ever felt. I also started bleeding instantly. Luckily my boyfriend was with me because I made him drive home because I was in too much pain. After that I spent my day on the couch curled up in pain. The insertion pain lasted about 3 days. After that I was always spotting. Also I had the strings cut as short as possible but they kept stabbing my boyfriend during intercourse which was hurting our sex life. I also would get random severe sharp pains that would nearly bring me to my knees if standing. I had to get it removed it was just too much.
Mirena and I went through A LOT together. I'll start with positives. Very good at keeping your pregnancy changes very low. Almost no chance that you will get pregnant while Mirena is inserted, there is still a chance that you may get pregnant but (Very very) little.I felt very secure. Now, here are the negatives and let me you that in my experience there were many cons. The bloating! The weight gain, mood swings, and even the morning sickness! Yes, some mornings it would even come up. The breast tenderness and sometimes the weight of my t-shirt alone would bring pain to them. Im insecure about my body and mirena did not help. It made it worse! And i feel sick and drained all the time. Different bodys react differently to things and it was not for me . Time to say goodbye to Mirena.
I had a Mirena fitted because of excessive bleeding due to fibroids. I am 43 and well finished having children. The placement of the IUD was excruciating, however after about 4 months of settling in I had no periods at all and felt great... until the weight started piling on. I have never really struggled with my weight, but I did put it down to age, stress, diet etc thinking maybe my metabolism has changed suddenly. I have had it now for 18months and have gained 10kgs. I am bloated, heavy, constipated, retaining fluid and have achy joints. I have over the last 2 months controlled my caloric intake, exercised despite having a physical job and drink far more water than ever before in an attempt to shed a few kilos. I have lost nothing. I know it's only been 2 months but surely piling the veges in and a lot more exercise I'd loose something. I am seriously considering having it removed.
I was on continuous birth control pills for two years after being diagnosed with stage 4 endometriosis and undergoing laparoscopic surgery for a 8 cm cyst and 5 cm cyst. While on continuous birth control pills, the cysts did not grow or return. I then switched to a Mirena. I was told this would control the endometriosis and growth of endometiroma (blood-filled cysts) as effectively as the birth control pills. Within less than a year, however, I had two endometrioma on both ovaries and was in a ton of pain. I recently started birth control pills again and had the mirena removed. The mirena insertion was extremely painful and was quite expensive ($800 covered by insurance). The whole process has really been a nightmare.
My mirena side effects include: Bloating in my midsection constantly. It's so frustrating Water retention. I am a runner and go to the gym every day. I eat clean and my body doesn't change. Severe mood swings. Depression. Acne. I wouldn't recommend any woman use this device.
Be very careful about choosing this IUD. If you have ever had acne issues, the this IUD will exasperate them as it has high androgens. Hair loss also is common and my daughter's hair hasn't recovered and it's been two years since she had it removed. Do your research!!!
I had Mirena inserted April 2018. I had my reservations about having it, but my Gyne was pushing it for years due to heavy bleeding (I had already had a tubal ligation). I had the usual discomfort when inserted and a few hours following, but that was to be expected. I went for a follow up 3 months later with complaints of NO sex drive, constant light periods. My doctor said to give it another 3 months, that it would get better. Another follow up in September 2018 and still the same, constantly have to wear a pad or liner..Everyday! No sex drive, and I mean NO sex drive which is hurting my marriage. Foul odour, which I cannot stand myself. Feel dirty all the time. Mood swings, the list goes on. It is now 9 months later and still experiencing all of this. I am seeing gyne today and having it removed! I'd rather have heavy periods once a month then have a light period everyday of every month. Don't do it!!
The Mirena was extremely painful going in and removing. I could feel it on my left side the entire time I had it installed. It caused a large ovarian cyst, weight gain, low sex drive and discharge.
I just put the Mirena to help stop with the bleeding but it's worst ! It's been for 6 Wyandotte's my period don't stop always have to wear a tampon or absorvente every day have a spot ! Lot headaches, numbness on my hands, change moods, and feeling depressed, crying, horrible feeling! I'm going to remove on next week! Too much headache.
I suffer from endometriosis (surgery last year cleared some up but the symptoms were returning). I have also recently been diagnosed with adenomyosis, so pretty much a life full of pain. My gynaecologist recommended the mirena after the pill wasn't helping and worsening my moods. Insertion was admittedly horrendous for someone like me who hasn't had children but I was given local anaesthetic to ease the pain. I had a 2/3 week constant bleed after insertion. 4 months later, and I feel like I've got a new body. My endo and adenomyosis pains now consist of irregular and manageable twinges rather than constant cramps. I cannot reccomend this enough of you have endometriosis or adenomyosis.
I got this IUD inserted two years ago. I still remember the sharp pain when it was inserted but it didnt last long. The good thing is that this did its job to prevent pregnancy as well as preventing periods altogether! But it has so many side effects. The biggest one for me was weight. I already was overweight, especially since I got this in right after an aportion, and now I have gained at least 30 pounds over the past two years, even with exercise and creating healthier eating habits. Not to mention major mood swings and the worst cramping Ive ever had. My hope is that I can remove it this year and loose all that weight. If youre looking to not have a period and can handle these side effects, go for it. If not, I do not recommend.
So I just got a mirena inserted over a week ago now after yet another abortion procedure and was on fentanyl so could barely feel a thing during it. I had my first one in 2012 for 3-5 months but had it removed due to cramping and pain. Since having a baby since then I feel that there is probably more room in my uterus for it so so far it has not been too bad other than some cramping and spotting. I am using this IUD as a last resort due to being very fertile and still am nursing at times so I like how the hormone " stays localized in your uterus." However, I have noticed some irritability in my mood since having it put in as well as today I've been experiencing a sensation of tight chestedness.. This IUD really is my only other alternative to having my tubes tied as I cannot currently afford to have another child at this point in my life.. So am hoping to only have it in maximum of 3 yrs.. So far my partner have had sex twice and everything seems normal. I am really not into synthetic hormonal forms of Birth control, and the concept of my period stopping entirely seems odd to me..I guess I am just desperate at this point!
I got the Mirena after my third child in 2013. I did not have heavy periods prior to, and after 1 month the periods stopped completely. I was so happy! I have never experienced any harsh side effects like the horror stories I have read. My Mirena has been GREAT!! Other than the occasional discomfort during intercourse, and thats rare. I just got my second insertion this past July (2018), and I was scared it would hurt to get it removed and replaced, but my Dr. literally said "cough", and he removed it...I was like "what the heck?! Thats it?" after that, he inserted the new one, and I spotted for like 2 days, and Ive been fine since!! No periods, no cramps, no babies, no headaches, NOTHING!! I love it and I would recommend it to anyone that has a "normal" woman anatomy. Hope this helps!!
I had it put in twice due to heavy bleeding .after 6 years I really think I should take it out . I have had hair loss , increase migraine, pigmentations increases, weight gain so much after the second in 3 mths I put on 7 kgs . The bleeding has stopped but I'm really of weight gain and migraine every two weeks
Do NOT recommend -pelvic pain -no sex drive -weight gain -depression AND anxiety -foul discharge I would not recommend
I had the Mirena inserted in 2004 after the birth of my daughter. I experienced some dizziness and cramping for a day or so. My cycles got lighter and lighter to eventually not having one. I waited 14 years (9 years too long!) to have it removed, and I just recently started getting my cycle again right before removal. I never had any side effects and it helped with my painful cycles I had prior to my pregnancy. I have never had any problems with it
Hi I had Mirena inserted in Jan of 18 and now December 18. When I first got it inserted and had cramps and was very uncomfortable I ended up turning white as a ghost and had to lay down while my legs were still open lol and having nurses bring me water and crackers and laying there for 30 minutes was not the best experience. After about a few months I started gaining weight and so far I've gained 15 pounds it's crazy! Now im having Headaches, breasts hurt grumpy back and front cramping all of a sudden spotting never had that in the last 11 months I've had it. I've decided to get Mirena removed and get a tubal ligation as I don't want anymore children. Great for not wanting to get pregnant and great if you don't want a period.
I'm really unsure about the Mirena at the moment. I'm 39 , 2 kids and had it inserted for contraception and primarily to stop heavy periods. I've had it for 6 months. So the insertion wasn't particularly pleasant but was absolutely nothing compared to giving birth - just like a weird smear test. The first 3 months I bled constantly which kind of defeated the object of getting it for me. I also experienced very sore breasts and acne (my skin previously was clear) Now for 2 months and I admit I have no idea whether this is related to the Mirena I have developed piles and anal fissure and also have pain the my right buttock, hip and upper thigh. This is only on one side. I have had a normal cycle for 1 month with an extremely light period- maybe 2 light tampons worth- this is brilliant compared to the flooding and clots. My libido has increased- I think this might be because my anemia is improving. So a mixed bag. I'm seeing an osteo for hip pain etc. If it has been caused by hormones I hope it abates when the dose decreases? I'm not sure what I will do- whether to get it removed. I was so tired with the heavy periods.
I had gotten Mirena back in March 2010 after my doctor practically begged me to get it. Months later I gained weight even though I was very active. Back in 2008 I had a miscarriage with the Mirena still in tact. Started having high blood pressure issues. 2010 I had it removed then experienced extreme periods to the point of not sleeping, I couldn't even go anywhere. So my doctor convinced me to get Mirena for heaving bleeding, so I did. In 2012, I had emergency surgery for ovary torsion (life threatening) and the Mirena wasn't removed. Depression and panic attacks started 2013. In 2014, high blood pressure 190+/100+(almost died). Same year, arthritis/gout, I was in my mid 40's. Had it removed December 2015 again heavy bleeding, dizziness. Due to heavy bleeding I ended up having a hysterectomy in 2017. I definitely wouldn't recommend it. I destroyed me physically and mentally, it's very dangerous.
So I had the Mirena inserted about 6 months ago to prevent pregnancy.. it was not painful at all when they inserted it.. I had a little cramping the day after.. But I barely have a period at all. But the bad things, I have extremely bad ance, not just on my face, but also across my stomach, on my butt, ect. Almost all over my body. I still have migraines and mood swings as I did before the Mirena. I am trying to get in to have my tubes removed as I already have 4 children and am left to be a single mom, I donnot need anymore children. I can't wait to have the Mirena removed because of the acne.. and not to mention I am a fat ads, I have gained so much weight.. I feel insecure and disgusting. I am 5'2 and weight 180 pounds... feels like I just keep gaining weight. So, if you want to be an acne faced / fat ass... go right ahead... it does however prevent pregnancy and help periods.
I had Mirena inserted about a year and a half ago. The insertion is a little uncomfortable but after a few hours it fades. My periods were all over to begin with but I expected that and after about 2 months they were light bleeding ones. This option works best for me because we don't have to worry about back up protection and it's a year and a half later and it still works great and prevents babies!
So I took this as a birth control until my husband could get a vasectomy. The added benefit of lighter periods was noce as well. I didn't see these ratings before hand..... so wish I had. I didn't have as bad of a struggle as some of you women here but I did have struggles. The weight gain wasn't fun but wasn't my biggest concern. I was losing hair (which some of this was normal as I had a kid but I was losing a lot of hair) and I was getring super dizzy out of nowhere even sotting or laying down. Like I could not see anything. I would get nauseous out of nowhere. There was always a pinching feeling where the IUD was insterted in my abdomen area. The worst part was, everytime I tried to talk to my doctor she shrugged it off and said see a specialist. It made me feel crazy. I've had it removed and have lost all the weight and no more symptoms. DON'T USE THIS PRODUCT!
I am currently on my second Mirena. My first was easy with no complications. I had transitioned from the pill which gave me my period once every three month to the IUD so I had no bleeding at all. The prescribed a strong ibuprofen for the cramps that followed for 3-4 days. I had it for 5 years and loved it so much I got a new one inserted. When the first one was removed I did cry not out of pain but you have this overwhelming rush. The second was inserted with no problems! I do occasionally get breast tenderness as if I was having my period and some night sweats. It is a great alternative to the pill and a lot safer!
Massive hair loss, extreme abdominal pain, brain tumor and stroke like symptoms! fibromyalgia type symptoms, tongue swelling (allergy tests all came back negative), I nearly died from the stroke like symptoms. Once it became displaced, went to ER, had it removed by gyno a couple days later: relief from everything afterward. Please read reviews and blogs. The hormones did NOT stay local in my case! My gyno says, " No one else has complained", but all other specialties say otherwise,"many complaints from women regarding the Mirena". How much are they paying these gynecologists to push this product?? Over $500 just for insertion. So the gynecologists are making big money. BEWARE! and read up.
I am unable to take the pill due to a pulmonary embolism reaction in 2012. I have been tracking my body since then and while I was successful at preventing unwanted pregnancies, it was time consuming, stressful, and cause me to spend a small fortune on pregnancy tests each month. I read a zillion horror reviews about mirena and put it off until recently because I have already been that "rare" side effect person before. I have had it for a few weeks. The procedure was quick, and virtually painless. I took cytotec 5 hours before and naproxen. I felt a moderate cramp when it was inserted....and that was it. I had some weird cramps that felt more like hunger pangs than menstrual cramps that night. By the next day I was perfectly fine. I will update after a few months, but so far it has been a positive experience!!!
I had the mirena inserted in 2014. I went a year with a uti after the insertion, and had side effects and now have allergic reactions to many medicines that treat utis. I have a list of about 6 medications I cannot take because they tried to get the uti gone, but the only thing that took it away was removing the mirena. once the doctor removed it I felt immediate relief.
I have been using Mirena for 5 years for assistance in lessening heavy periods, helping in the treatment of Poly Cycstic Ovary Syndrom and to lessen chronic Migraines. The Hubby was previously fixed so while the Mirena does work for contraception it's not my focus. As Mirena doesnt contain estrogen, it does cut down on the regular hormonal migraine i would get each month when I would have my period. I have been working with doctors to also take some profolactic medications for migraines. For my PCOS I also saw a dermatologist who prescribed better creams for my cystic acne than you can get at the drug store. I had the acne before the Mirena. I'm in my later 30's. After trying to insert in office without success, I had my Mirena inserted under general anesthesia as recommended by my doctor as I have not had a child and have a heart shaped uterus. There was some pain and cramping. The first year of spotty and inconsistent periods was annoying, but once you get through that it is pretty nice to be period free. I'm headed in to get mine removed and have a new one inserted. We will see how the next 5 years go.
I am 46 years old. Not able to get pregnant anymore due to a tubal years ago but I have terrible, heavy periods to the point I am chronically anemic. My doctor has pushed me to have the Mirena for years to control my periods and finally I agreed. So far so good! The insertion was not great but bearable. I had no major cramping after, only a small amount of spotting day of and NOTHING since. I am so glad I did not see the reviews on this before I did it that is for sure! Everyone will have their own experience with it. Some will love it some will hate it. It is too soon for me to decide but if I don't like how I feel after a year, I will have it removed. Simple as that. So far, I feel good and love the thought of no more periods!
I've had Mirena in for about 6 months. In the beginning everything seemed fine, I did begin to have an increase in Migraines, which I brought to the attention of my GYNO. She disregarded them and said she doesn't believe that my migraines are from the Mirena. I continued on for the next 6 months. I lost my sex drive, which has caused arguments for my significant other and myself. I have gained 10 pounds while on it. I started having Mirgraines every single day where I was taking an alarming amount of Ibuprofen. I ended up going to my normal doctor. She prescribed me migraine medicine daily and suggested I get it removed and switch to a non hormonal birth control. I just got it out on Friday and my migraines are not there anymore. My GYNO said she was weary about removing it because she believe the Mirena was not causing my migraines. She was clearly wrong. I also because more irritable and tired all the time while on the Mirena. So I do not recommend it. Although, although I have other friends who have it and they say their only issue is pain during sex.
I have had the Mirena for Two days now the insertion was a little painful nothing too serious I have two children and wanted to use a birth control so I chose the Mirena. After reading all the reviews the bad reviews outway the good reviews by a ton and I'm ready to have it removed lol I see not one good convincing review that makes me feel like oh maybe that person just had a bad reaction or bad side affects. it seems like Everyone who has it has had problems I think I'll opt out before I have a crazy story to tell. Next time I'll read the reviews before hand
Very shortly after having Mirena inserted I started having a very painful rash around my vagina and in my armpits. The doctor didn't think it had anything to do with the IUD so she left it in. I stopped having periods completely and lost a ton of weight (and I have a very slender frame aka no weight to lose). I went on a trip that I had planned for a long time and had to come home early to get the IUD taken out because the rash never went away. Immediately upon its removal I felt relief and the rash started to get better. I absolutely do not recommend this product to anyone. I think I would rather have gotten pregnant!
I have had mirena for almost 5 years. I thought everything was perfect. My husband, kids, and work got the worst end of the deal. I had mood swings, depressed, high anxiety, no sex drive whatsoever (which led to constant fights), acne on face and back (in which I've spent hundreds on proactive and a dermotologist). Not only that I had discharge all day everyday and also odor. This made my confidence levels drop ALL THE WAY DOWN. I never linked the mirena bc I got it inserted right after I had a baby, as well as having to raise the little guy. So my body already was already out of wake. I had to really sit back and reavaluate my life. I then started to think... did some research and what do I see.. many reviews on women experiencing the same things.. so I will be getting a hormone free birth control. But as far as pros my periods were light and I didnt have to worry about pregnancies.
I'm 17 years old never had a child and suffer extremely bad with my periods with them being very heavy and vomiting on the first day, I never agreed with the pill so the Mirena was my next option and after reading so many bad reviews I Almost backed out but I'm so glad I didn't insertion was extremely uncomfortable but bearable and over in seconds.
Insertion was fine. Was Very excited about not menstruating. Two months in I gained 15 pounds, and had excruciating burning under my armpits and feet. My breasts increased from a b to a d and were constantly sore like when I was pregnant and lactating. I had made an appointment to get checked and two days before my body expelled it from my body in a bloody mess. Within 24 hours I felt so much better!
I have the Mirena for about a year and 9 months. The insertion process was short but painful. I bled for almost 6 months straight. Not heavy periods but none the lessI still had a light period for 6 months which was awful. After that my cycle became pretty normal just light periods for a couple of days a month. But, I gained 50 lb and felt like I was 9 months pregnant through the entire time I had the Mirena. My breasts were very tender often to the point it was hard to sleep and my sex drive was completely gone from day one. I just got it removed yesterday and it was painless! I feel amazing, and even went to the gym this morning.I would not recommend getting the Mirena for anyone, but it is effective for preventing pregnancy especially because you have no more sex drive! LOL
The first 6 months of having the Mirena in I began to notice my anxiety getting worse along with depression. I'd already had problems with mental health so I didn't believe there was a connection. After 6 months my moderate acne began to flare up, my cheeks and jawline were covered in painful cystic acne. My periods also never went away fully like some say it does, if anything my periods were worse than they've ever been my cramps were terrible and my flow was so heavy I would bleed through a extra heavy tampon. I finally had it removed and went back on the pill. I feel 10x better. Would not recommend this to anyone
After Having 2 Babies, I Decided On Mirena IUD... Since I Basically Got Pregnant On The Pill Twice. The Procedure Of Getting It Inserted Didn't Hurt What So Ever, I Had Mild Cramping After (It Does Affect Every Womans Body Different) My Periods Are A Little Heavier Than Usual But I've Only Had It For Like 3 Months, So I'm Guessing My Periods Will Slow Down Once The Mirena Is In Awhile And My Hormones Immune To The Medicine. So Far So Good With The Mirena IUD, Hopefully I Can Go The Whole 3-5 Years With No Problem!!!!
It was very good in preventing pregnancy but I had bad mood swings on this and the worst thing was the weight gain I weighed 130lbs and in 1 year I was up to 187lbs so I had it removed and I'm hoping to loose the weight now
So I've had the mirena coil for almost two years after my son being born, the insertion of it wasn't painful it was the cramps after! They were awful takes about 6 weeks to get over them! I have solidered through almost two years and have had enough! I have nothing but pain, I have periods here and there which the pain grows every time, every time I lift my arms to reach somthing I get a pain, I won't say it's all bad because I've havnt had a pregnancy scare but the pain was just too much...
I just got mine in and so far so good! It cramped putting it in but nothing worse than i've had on a period (although i've had some pretty bad periods before). Cramping after only feels like im on my period. Also, I am a teenager so nothing has been stretched out too much already and it still didn't hurt much!
A little background, I switched to the progestin only pill (POPs) several years ago because I get migraines with aura and also because combination pills were starting to trigger more migraines. I was having a lot of breakthrough bleeding in recent months, periods every two weeks or so and lasting about 10 days on average so I was sick of it!!! I had stopped my period about 4 days before I had the Mirena inserted and I had minimal pain with insertion. I took 3 ibuprofen and ate a sandwich about 45 min before my appt. The cervical clamp felt like nothing and the only pain I felt was when they measured my uterus and again when they inserted the Mirena. Both times felt like a really intense period cramp that lasted maybe 10 seconds. After that it felt just like regular cramps that stopped and started every couple minutes. I sat around in the exam room for a little bit and left the office after about 15 minutes. My husband drove me home which was an extremely good choice because I almost passed out on the way home! Not from pain or anything, I just have a history of vasovagal syncope so beware if you do too. Heating pad and ibuprofen was essential for the first few days but I was ready
I'll start from the beginning. The initial pain from the insertion wasnt that bad--Ive never had a baby so yes it hurt, but it was more of a discomfort than excruciating pain. I cramped pretty bad the next 2 days, but a heating pad was all I needed. I thought the cramping would go away, but honestly i cramped for about 9 months after the insertion, and I still have irregular periods. In just over a year, I have gained 25 pounds around my stomach, legs, and butt and it will NOT go away, no matter how much exercise I do. I also bloat so terribly that it looks like Im 7 months pregnant. I have always had pretty good skin, but after about 8 months I started developing acne all along my jaw/chin. It has really warped how I look at my body as being beautiful because of all these changed. With all that being said, I have not have a pregnancy scare and it is a nice peace of mind to not have to remember a pill. If you're willing to go through the side effects (which I normally never have with medications) I would say it is worth it.
I used Mirena for several years after I had two daughters. It worked well for preventing pregnancy during the time that I used it. However, shortly after having it removed I became pregnant with my third pregnancy, at which about 7 weeks in I had terrible abdominal pain and couldn't move off of the bathroom floor due to it. My husband called the ambulance and I was taken to the hospital where we found out it was an ectopic pregnancy due to a scarred Fallopian tube which had to be removed. I don't know if the Mirena had anything to do with the scarring of that tube or not. My husband and I have had a third child, a son, since then.
I had my first Mirena inserted in 2011 as an alternative to birth control pills. The insertion was easy. I took Tylenol before hand and had some cramping for a few minutes as it was being inserted. Nothing worse than my typical menstrual cramps though. Afterwards I had some light bleeding for about 3 days. For the first few months I had a normal period, which gradually decreased in flow to only spotting then no period at all after the first year. I did however get occasional cramping once per month but nothing like my previous menstrual cramps! I had my mirena exchanged for a new one in 2016 as I was so happy with it. It was much more painful that time, although that may have been related to the skill of the physician inserting it. She kept having to remeasure and was having difficulty getting it in the correct position. It took much longer and I had ALOT of cramping. Again I had some light bleeding for a few days afterwards, but nothing since then. Overall I have been very happy with the IUD! I love not having my period as my cramps used to be very bad. I have not experienced any chances in my mood like I did with the pills.
After reading these reviews I has HIGHLY anxious about having the IUF placed and even thought about changing my mind after going into the room. However, I felt almost nothing! The one cramp I had was less painful than a normal period cramp and it last for maybe 30 seconds. I have had no issues thus far and I am happy I had it done.
I got the mirena when I was 18 years old right after I had my daughter in April 2017. Right before I had my daughter, I weighed 175lbs and then after I had he I lost 20 pounds easily. Then I got the Mirena inserted and a week later I gained 10 lbs. At that time I didn't think it was the mirena but a year and a half later, I'm thinking that it just might be bc I continue to gain weight. I used to be a very fit person before I got pregnant, I went to the gym an everything so gaining this weight is hard for me. Also, I have had a couple of cysts on my ovaries these past couple months and they cause painful sex! I have never had a cyst that I am aware of until now and I feel like it's because of the mirena. I really want to get it removed but my husband and I are not financially ready to have another baby and I haven't see any good reviews on the other birth controls! Idk what to do! Pros of the mirena: the insertion did not hurt at all. I didn't feel a thing but I hear it's different for every woman. Also, I haven't had a period which is awesome!
I am very young and have terrible bleeding which is very hard with all my sports and I also have a blood clotting condition (von willebrans) which makes it just terrible. I got the marina told it would pich a little at first and cramp after WHICH IT DID and that "pinch" that feels like someone is slicing your insides with a razor blade comes back to torture me at random inconvenient times where I either sit, fall, or writhe with pain in my bed while my mom gets me advil. Also I NEVER had acne until this, and I mean it's not bad but my face gets so oily it's so gross. Probably what kills me the most is the weight gain, I used to have a tiny waist and hips but now after working out AT LEAST 10 hours a week I STILL gain weight on my thighs and hips and stomach and it WONT GO AWAY, it's just so frustrating. Every time I try to tell my Gynecologist she brushes it off saying the razor pain is my body cramping around it and to give it time. I feel like she doesn't understand! I dont know what to do! Anyway, my neighbor has been using it for 10 years and shes completely fine so I feel like it's either good or T E R R I B L E.
I have had the mirena for two years. When I first inserted it, it was a painful and uncomfortable process. I bled for the full 6 months with maybe a week break here and there. My periods stopped completely around the 6 months mark. The birth control took my sex drive away completely. It also gave me a nasty discharge with odour and constant infections. I've been admitted to the hospital a few times for intense abdominal pain while being on the birth control and recently have been very sick because my doctor says my body is actually rejecting the IUD. Please do your research. I'm having mine removed in three days
I just got the Mirena put in on September 25th and just got it taken out on November 8th.Here our a few reasons why I got it taken out . Every since I've had my period I have had very heavy bleeding and bad cramping . Upon insertion of Mirena, my cramps got severely worst and felt like I was being stabbed repeatly multiple times of the day. I got more frequent headaches and sharp stabbing pains in my back. I also noticed my mood changing and I felt more anxious even though I'm on anxiety medicine .I'm not saying Mirena is bad but I am saying if you already have a heavy and bad period , that I would do my research before getting it put in. Definitely ask your doctor questions or concerns or side effects that will be included with having the Mirena in. All in all I just decided I didn't want to put my body through all of that.
I have just had the mirena fitted and the insertion was quick and painless, i did take 2 ibuprofen an hour before even cycled to work 10 mins after! I've been on the pill for years so the doctor said I shouldn't bleed very much, I have very slight stomach ache and am spotting 3 hours later but so far so good,
At first you'll think it amazing. No/very light periods. But after a few months you'll find out nasty things. The strings/wire poked my boyfriend's penis and made it bleed....the doctor will probably fob you off with "they'll soften in time"...not true. You may also smell! The discharge is gross, as is the frequent bacterial vaginosis infections. And then there's depression and irritability. The best sensation for me was how I felt when it was removed; could breathe properly through my stomach at last and my sex drive came back with a vengeance!
Lessened my period bleeding and cramping, best thing that ever happened to me. Wish it was around my whole life. Plus, best birth control.
Got Mirena at 15 to control severe cramping and heavy bleeding... as a highly competitive athlete it was very difficult to compete on my period. Tried Alesse birth control and was very happy except I got acne. After changing pills, had a very scary episode of menorrhagia where doctors recommended Mirena to reduce chances of recurrence. Had an incredibly painful insertion - took about 35mins and was constant stabbing- I was sweaty and nauseous and cramps lasted about 4 days at that rate before improving slightly. Have had it for just about three months adn hate it, I have no period but spotting at least 3x a week as well as insanely painful cramps -worse than insertion- at least once every day and on and off once a month. Absolutely hate it and am very disappointed as the pill was hard on my stomach and now I have to return to that. Can't wait to get it out!
I have been on the Mirena for 4 years now. I had absolutely no issues with the incertion process. However, I did spot off and on for the first 3 months and experienced some crapping, but nothing unbearable. I have not experienced a cycle since then and no side effects (that I know of). For me, the Mirena was easier than trying to take a birth control pill at the same time everyday. I have no regrets, nor complaints. I am satisfied with my decision to get the Mirena.
I had mirena inserted in 2008 after 9 yrs had it removed to try to conceive (the same one) After a year of trying can't seem to get pregnant. I advise anyone who still want kids later in life to take into concideration how long they leave the mirena in place and their age when planning on having it removed. I am in my late 30 so that can be playing a role in my fertility .My period did return 2 weeks after removal and has been normal every since. I was on the depo and got pregnant 4 months after coming off of it. I always had acne so I can't say for sure if mirena made it worst. Since i had it removed my face has cleared up . I don't know if thats do to the mirena removal or my new acne medication.
Getting mirena Iud was worst decision I've ever made. Insertion wasn't bad, but I had horrible cramping and bleeding for the next few days. I would have periods that would last for 2 weeks and the blood was a dark brown color. I had extremely painful cramps during my period and during and after sex. Sex was extremely uncomfortable and hurt. It also hurt my husband every time because the string would poke him. After expressing these concerns to my doctor, she recommended that I keep waiting because it would get better. It only ever got worse. After a year and a half of painful cramps, painful sex, very long periods and bleeding after sex, I finally couldn't take it any longer and had it taken out. I went back on birth control pills and everything changed immediately. I would never recommend mirena iud to anyone.
I'm a mother of 5! And I decided that I needed something effective and long term for 5 years.. ive had this 7 years ago but I had it removed .. 3mos later I was pregnant with my 1st child.. I've been seeing nothing but bad reviews and I just got mirena inserted.. I'm hoping and praying I don't have any problems... but these reviews are scary..
I LOVE the Mirena. I got my first one after I had my third child. It didn't hurt, just a little uncomfortable. No periods for 8 years has been the best side effect. Just got it removed and a second one in today. It was definitely more painful being inserted, but not unbearable. I forgot to take ibuprofen before this time, so that is probably why. Got up right after, drove home and took ibuprofen and felt completely fine. I did notice a very small weight gain after getting my first mirena, but for me it is worth it to not have to think about birth control or periods.
I have had my IUD for almost year. No periods has been great. Insertion was uncomfortable with cramps, spotting and discomfort for about 2 weeks. BUT if you have had problems with acne in the past do NOT get this. I was acutane 2 years before my IUD. I was clear for about a year before but after my IUD my acne came back even worse than I had ever had. Deep, painful cystic acne, something I had never had. I am now on acutane again but the scaring to my face was devasting. Stay away if you can.
I am probably the most fertile woman on the planet so this was my last resort before cutting my tubes. I had previously tried all types of birth control but nothing worked. Then I asked my OB about the Mirena. I had seen the commercials and it seemed effective and painless. She explained that my body would need 6 months before it got used to it but I should be fine. Let me tell u the 6 months are NO JOKE. I was at my breaking point. Pushed to the limit 3 months in I ended up in the ER because the pain had become so severe I physically couldn't walk. There they suggested I weight it out another 3 months,and I did. After the 6 months passed I could finally get some rest. Now I barely have cramps at all and have almost lost my period completely. I suffered for half a year but not everyone can which is why I don't want to reccomend it. Trust me if you can't really tolerate pain then dont do it.
Day 3 on Mirena. Insertion wasn't horrible. It was literally a quick 30 second pain and small trobbing seconds after. I did read all the bad reviews about the pain. Not as bad as they stated. Im sure because I relaxed myself, my mind, my body, specially my hips, and pelvic area as much as possible. Relaxing is key!! I took advil 15 minutes before. Im about 7 weeks postpartum. Had 3 csections. My cervix dialated 2cm before I went in for my 3rd csection. I feel like this helped since I now have a high pain tolerance for the after pains of csections. Was a piece of cake. Only cramped later that night. Went to bed and pain disappeared completely. Only wearing a panty liner. Has watery discharge with a pinkish tint. I feel GREAT.
I'm usually not one to write reviews but I want to protect anybody and everybody considering to get on the Mirena. The insertion process was BY FAR the MOST painful thing I have ever experienced. I got it in around 7am and was bedridden until 4pm and couldn't do any intense exercise until around 8pm. I bawled my eyes out from the ongoing pain that lasted from insertion to about 3-4 hours later. Don't believe people when they tell you the pain stops when the Mirena is placed-it continues with INTENSE cramping. And to make things worse, I have now been on my period for 3 straight months with a week break about 2 months in. So yeah the Mirena is effective-it's effective because it is impossible to have sex while you are on it! The worst part-it hurts my boyfriend to have sex with me. He feels the strings every time and they are supposedly very painful. It's causing issues in our relationship and this birth control was the WORST decision I have EVER made. On top of all of that, I can no longer feel "horny". It has messed with my hormones and I no longer desire sex. Scheduling to get it taken out ASAP. DO NOT GO ON THE MIRENA!
I was terrified going in because all the awful reviews. Insertion was a little uncomfortable but was over in 2 minutes. The next few days some random occasionally intense cramping but only lasted a few mins after the first 2 weeks everything went back to normal. Now No camps, very light periods love it.
I felt a slight cramp then it was over. I had it for almost 3 years. I had it removed in September and my cycle has come back with a vengeance. It only takes a few minutes to fill a overnight pad and tampons together. I'm not going to lie this device did stop my periods after a month. Over the next 3 years this device has caused me to lose my hearing in my left ear, it also caused me to develop an eye condition, I broke out in a bad itchy rash, I had a short temper and it felt like I was turning into this mean, nasty and awful person. I wish that I had read the side effects especially the rare side effects. If I had then I wouldn't have gotten it. I miss hearing out of my left ear. It's causes vertigo and causes my balance to be off which is bad some days and I can no longer wear high heels. Pretty shoes going to waste.
The insertion process was not painful. The doctor took her time. I had one full term pregnancy which made the insertion a little bit easier. After the insertion I have a light blood flow for 2 hours. No more bleeding since. It just made my breast a little bigger and a light discharge.
I had my mirena fitted in the 22nd Oct, this is my second one. My first was fitted under general anaesthesia. I was very nervous about having it done awake and I believe myself to be a bit of a wuss when it comes to anything down below. I've had two children. The experience with removal and fitting was uncomfortable. It wasn't painful but internally uncomfortable but quick. I took x 2 cocodamol and 400mg of ibuprofen 45 minutes before and would definitely recommend to do this more that it helps with the cramps afterwards. Don't be put off by bad reviews though it is uncomfortable it's not awful and it is manageable and in my opinion worth it. If I had to have it done again tomorrow I would. I have been pleased with my mirena for the last 5 years and hopefully I'll feel the same for the next 5.
Worried about having it put in for ages after reading lots of awful reviews. Almost chickened out at the GP's but went ahead. Hardly felt the insertion, took literally 5 minutes and had no cramping or any ill effects after. Have had a tiny bit of spotting but other than that absolutely nothing else of concern. All going very well thankfully.
Okay- so I made the mistake of reading these reviews WHILE I sat at the docs office waiting for mine to come in and insert this. That was a bad idea on my part- I'm going to be honest, either most women are complete babies and very dramatic or perhaps their doctors rammed the IUD inside them with a crane. Either way, I was extremely apprehensive after I read these and nearly left. My doc came in and gave me a Motrin and explained everything. When she “measured” me, she said I'd feel a pretty big cramp. I felt nothing. Then she said I'd feel another one after she put the device in. I did feel that- a strong period cramp and it was over in seconds. It took her less than two minutes to do everything. Now- here's my perspective: I think women who have had babies might have an easier time. I also think if you find Pap smears painful, you'll find this painful. I think paps are a breeze. Since having it in I've had no issues (yet) other than some dizziness. In any event- don't go by the reviews. Everyone is so different!!
Only had for one month, but had HEAVY bleeding almost every day. Got it taken out 2 days and the bleeding is like nothing I've ever experienced, I'm bleeding though super plus tampons after just hour with huge blood clots. And on top of that I've gained 7 lbs and look as though I'm 3 months pregnant from being so bloated! Mirena is the devil!! Don't do it!
I've had my mirena coil around 10 days now,can't fault it at all.insertion was a little uncomfortable but not what I imagined,had cramp that night but eased off,had slight spotting on and off since but feel so much better not taking the contraceptive pill.
I don't believe anyone when they say it was just “a little cramping” that's conpletely false. Mirena is extremely painful and I would not reccomednd anyone to get it! Seriously take this a your warning and don't waste your time and health! The horror stories are TRUE. Keep reading reviews and you will see.
I read horrible reviews about the insertion and reactions. So far so good, the doctor prescribed Misoprostol, took the night before and the morning of the procedure, nothing to cry about, a little cramping. My doctor performs the procedures all day, her speciality so that probably made a difference in how it's performed. She talked my through it, a little cramp and it was done, entire process took about 5 minutes, no cramping or bleeding afterwards, a little discharge but I felt good. I'm a cry baby when it comes to pain but honestly it was no way near the horror stories. I would find a specialist and ask questions and ask for the proper pain meds to help.
DO NOT GET MIRENA. I cannot stress enough how terrible this form of birth control is. I had mirena for 3 years and bled off and on the entire time. Especially the first 6 months to a year was constant spotting. I got terrible little white acne bumps on my face and deeper dark acne bumps on my butt. The pain from the insertion was probably what going through labor feels like. Absolutely horrible, I wish I never got this thing in me and feel a huge sense of relief having it taken out. I've read some even worse stories with the IUD being stuck inside of you. Don't even waste your time risking your health this way!
I finally had my mirena taken out after 2 years. I went on mirena for birth control and was excited to try something new besides the pill. I did not get pregnant during this time so it did it's job, however I experienced horrible side effects. My period was irregular and would just appear out of no where. One day I got my period at work and stained my clothes, I did not even see it coming, it was like a high school nightmare. I have also been dealing with acne on my back, butt and face since starting mirena. I went to see a dermatologist who put me on a pill... the whole reason I went on mirena was to stop taking pills..... all of this was not worth it and I decided life would be more enjoyable being back on the pill. Having the mirena inserted was EXTREMELY painful. Maybe it is because I have never had a child but I have never experienced cramping that badly in my entire life. I should have listened to my body then. I have a few other friends who have had the mirena as well and have taken it out for similar reasons. It works for some people and doesn't for others, however I would never reccomend it to someone after my experience.
I'm 21 and have never had kids. I had gotten the Mirena inserted in march of this year. It was uncomfortable, not so much as painful having it inserted, it was very quick and my doctor was great with it. The rest of the day however felt like I had gotten a heavy period all of a sudden, but the following days were fine. Following months my periods were gone which was great, I had an increase in my sex drive, and I didn't have to remember having to take anything. In July I started bleeding heavily constantly, and I couldn't have sex because it was causing my boyfriend pain. I had a check up in August, turns out it had been dislodged and had been crammed in my vagina where I couldn't feel it to test for strings. I had it removed and had Skyla inserted same day. And now I am experiencing same pain and bleeding again and I think I have the same problem with the skyla. So I do recommend for women to get it, it was great for me when it worked, but for my body, it just doesn't seem to be able to accept iuds. Just keep in mind all bodies are different.
I had Merina for 1,5 years and finally had it taken out today. It caused me a lot of cysts within couple of months. It was painful... I visited the doctor and he said that my body was still adapting to it so I decided to wait. It was fine after 3-4 month... I had irregular pain in my ovaries area but I was still waiting for it to calm down. Any sexual contact was painful... so I just was afraid to have any contact with my husband, which, of course, influenced the relationship. I got sick of this pain and psycholigical condition that I caused me for all this time! I got rid of it! It's my personal experience... I hope if you decide to get it you'll be more lucky!
If you are looking to get the Mirena inserted strictly for birth control and don't care about side effects, I highly recommend. I had it in for a year and a half and participated in no other uses for safe sex. No pull out, no condoms, and I never got pregnant. However, the side effects for me were awful. Metabolism went way down. I had no energy. I gained about 50 pounds, but didn't change the way I ate. I didn't have a period which was pretty nice, but at the same time I kept having the urge to just want to bleed to get all of the hormones out. My sex drive went way up, but my confidence went way down which counteracts itself. I would want to have sex, but would be too self conscious to let my own fiancée see my body. This lasted the entire time I was on it. I got it taken out about 3 months ago and started a diet pill (most OB's provide them) and I have been feeling phenomenal. So much energy all the time. I lost 25 pounds (may be from the diet pill) and I'm just so happy all the time. We do participate in safe sex (condoms, pulling out, ect.) and have been perfectly fine, pregnancy wise. I just don't think it's worth all the mental downfalls.
I had one in 2008. Was moody. Irregular bleeding. And started haemorrhagic bleeding one day. Got to an emergency gynaecologist and it had tu be removed. I had developed polyps in the uterus.
Insert Review: I had the IUD Mirena inserted 4 days ago. I too, was nervous about all the bad reviews. I went in a little shaky and not relaxed. I am 29 and have 4 kids. I went in 5 weeks after delivering my 4th, still spotting from delivery. My OB was very gentle and told me everything as he was doing it. I didn't feel him inserting it at all! The only thing that I felt was the cleaning solution he had to use before inserting it. The cleaning solution burned a bit making it uncomfortable during and for about two hours after inserting it. But I have had no discomfort since. I've had spotting, the same as I did before inserting from delivery, but nothing more. I am exclusively breastfeeding as well. So far, so good! No side effects so far, no cramping, and I cannot feel it either. I got all worked up for nothing.
No problems at all and very effective for heavy periods. Wish I had done this sooner instead of suffering every month
I am a 36 year old mom of 4. I had all vaginal births. Without birth control I had painful and long periods (7-10) days and I had very bad pms two weeks prior to every period and my period was irregular. My skin was horrible with cystic acne and virtually no sex drive. I bled for 6 months on depo and pills didn't help my bad periods. So 6 weeKS afterm giving birth to my 4th son I had the Mirena iud place. It was painless during insertion. I had some cramping afterwords but nothing glsome ibuprofen couldn't handle. The first 90 days I had some symptoms of cramping spotting and some heasaches. Now once my body got used to it I was fine It stopped my periods so no pms, it didn't clear my acne but it's no longer cystic, my sex drive went up, my overall mood was improved. I love the iud for me it was a miracle maker. Fast forward 5 years extraction was a breeze didn't feel a thing and insertion was a breeze only felt pressure. The bad reviews had me scared but for me even if it was painful it couldn't be as bad as childbirth.
After ten years and two Mirena, I'm experiencing migraines, vision problems, papilladema, tachycardia, shortness of breath. All symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. Scary stuff. Getting it removed today. It was great until it wasn't. It's literally killing me. There are pages and pages of women describing the same symptoms and doctors still won't belive you when you tell them it's the mirena. There is a class action lawsuit against mirena for these issues. Please don't get it.
After having my second one placed and at the end of ten years, I have experienced papilladema, severe migraines,vision issues,tachycardia, difficulty swallowing and shortness of breath. I have read page after page of women experiencing the same symptoms. Having mine removed tomorrow. I'm hoping the damage isn't permanent. It was great. Until it wasn't. I loved the fact I didn't have periods. I loved the fact that I didn't have to take something everyday. Now it is killing me. Literally.
I had mirena inserted May 4th 2018. Insertion itself wasn't bad but I did have some severe cramping for a few hours afterwards (to the point my uterus was sore for 3days). If my body continues to adjustment well I plan on to keep using mirena until menopause but Im going to give it a full year before making that call and Im 35 years old now. Pre-IUD period was for 4to 5 days no spotting With IUD Up till 3 months each period decreased by half but spotting for 14 to 16 days. Month 4 thru now is spotting for 14-16 days At this point the only thing is for duration to shorten or vanish to make this any easier. But so far Im pleased especially since I don't have to remember anything other than to check the stings.
Yesterday I got the Mirena for birth control. I was some what reluctant to get it because of all the negative reviews I read about how painful it was to get it. I decided to proceed with it and must say it really didnt hurt at all for me. There was some discomfort and cramping, but not painful. Last night after I got home I had more cramping. Today is day 2 and had less cramping. So I would my experience has been good thus far!
Insertion was the most painful experience of my life. I bled for weeks after (not unusual, I was okay with it). I stopped getting my period for about two years. During this time I gained weight/was bloated, it was impossible to lose weight, god awful acne, cranky, uncomfortable, stabbing pains in the sides of my pelvis, pain during sex. I finally got it removed (although my doctor at the time tried to force me into keeping it.... concerning) and felt better almost instantly and started to look better right away. I wouldn't recommend to anybody.
I am not going to lie, the first 3 months was a pain. I would spot every single day (nothing a panty liner couldn't handle) and sometimes have pretty bad cramps. But after that 3rd month everything stopped, I don't have my period anymore and sometimes (very rarely) will get light cramps. I totally think that the birth control is worth it because now I don't have to think about it for the next 6 years. During the first 3 months I was sexually active and it was perfectly fine, it was never enough blood to be a concern. As for the insertion, it did feel very uncomfortable but only lasted at max 5 minutes. This was also my first IUD as an 18-year-old and I am in love. Highly recommend!
Terrible pain shooting from my stomach through my leg. It also made me throw up. The pain appeared every day and I had no functionality left. I never regret removing it.
So I had the Mirena inserted about a month ago! Was super excited about it because Hey no periods! My sister had it and didn't have any issues with it no spotting or anything! Me on the other hand!! I spotted right after iGot it and have been on my period for literally 20 plus days!! Non exsiting sex life and really Moody because who wants to bleed for a whole month when I'm used to a 5 day period. I go see my doctor in about two weeks and if iAm still bleeding when I go I will be having her remove this thing because iCant take it!! I'm willing to give it a shot but this bleeding has to stop!
Mirena is great!!! It lets me live life with out worry or concern about my periods. I don't even have a period anymore ????
The insertion was extremely painful. I hardly ever had cramps before Mirena. The insertion cramps were terrible. For 6 months (almost to the day) after I had it put in, I would get cramps that were so bad I would wake up at night with them. My periods have always been 3-5 days and pretty low maintenance. With mirena, they are usually about 2 weeks long. I choose not to have intercourse while I am bleeding (to each their own) so this has been a major pain point for me. If I had it to do over, I would still go with mirena only because due to allergies I am severely limited in my options (mirena, copper iud, or implant) and the bleeding with the implant was non-stop for 6 months before I switched to mirena.
I had read so many reviews on how insertion hurts if you have never had kids. I had no pain at all. It just felt uncomfortable but that should be expected. 10/10 would recommend to anyone who has taken hormonal birth control before. Side effects were the same as my OC so nothing changed except the fact that I dont have to worry for 5 years.
I LOVEEE my Mirena IUD. I previously had the Nexplanon insert for about a year and although effective, I bled in some amount nearly every day while I had it. Since I've had Mirena, I have not had a single period or period-like symptoms. The initial insertion is pretty painful but COMPLETELY worth it. I experienced cramping the next couple of days after getting Mirena but nothing too bad compared to normal period cramps. Considering how I don't have a period now, one week of cramps for this is definitely a good trade-off. As someone who read a ton of reviews before getting this, trust me when I say it's worth it!!
10/10 . Besides the first initial insertion and being terrified/anxiety about it, it wasn't even bad I just over thought it, anyways insertion pain 3/10max they numbed me down there. didn't have pain much after just minimal cramps when too active for excercise/hobbies It's been about a month since insertion stopped the spotting I had with depo shot (bled 3 months straight) Boosted my sex drive insanely I was worried from all the reviews about partners feeling the strings, didn't happen just way better I was worried about pain I read from reviews it boosted the pleasure for me, WIN WIN. Worth the peace of mind too!! Definitely different with all people worth the try if you are hesitant, can always get it removed for me it was a success!
Unbearably uncomfortable.
I've had the Mirena put in me for almost a year now, placed in after my first baby. the procedure was a little painful but very tolerable. overall the Mirena does it job! don't get me wrong! and i loooooved not really having my menstrual cycle..i only got it maybe once every three months and for about 3 short days. BUT my partner said he was always able to feel it and sometimes it was uncomfortable and there would even be some positions that hurt me like it felt like the Mirena was stabbing my uterus..... BUT my main problem with this was my mood swings and personality change!!!! it mad me so mad, getting annoyed at the dumbest reasons, crying at any point...i just felt so miserable. it had me second guessing my relationship for no reason because i knew i was happy its just he was the first person i can take it out on so i did. horrible! not having my period and knowing i wasn't going to get pregnant was amazing but it was not worth my happiness!
I decided to get the mirena because I had endometriosis. Very Bad period Pain.. Had it inserted at a GP. Straight after I almost fainted, sweating and vomited on GP ground. I had to call someone to pick me up, as pain was that bad. 4 hours later at Home, I went to the emergency department where they pumped me full of morphine.. I refused to remove the merina. The bad cramps/pain only lasted 2 days.. I have now had the merina for 10 months and only had a very light spotting 3 times in past 10months. No period so no more endometriosis period pain, which is great, I can now work without having sick days everymonth. I have noticed signs of hair loss, dizzy, feeling of balance and sometimes sharp pain in the stomach and a lot more emotional now. I'm 27 and I will put up with side affects so I can have normal work life for Now. If I didnt have endometriosis I would 100% get it removed.
Loss of sex drive & orgasm. Weight gain and depression. After 18 months, removed!!!!
I could not frown upon getting the mirena iud any more. I am a very healthy 17 year old and decided to get the mirena as a convenient form of birth control. Immediately after insertion (which was incredibly painful), the bleeding and cramping began. A 7 day period is already bad enough, but mine lasted for 30 days with cramping that would stop me in my tracks from pain. I had it taken out after a month and that same day went back onto my oral birth control. I thought this would stop the obnoxious symptoms of bleeding and cramping, but now 6 days after I am still bleeding spontaneously. I will wait another month for my body to regulate, but no device this small should change my mood, body, and quality of life this dramatically. Just take the pill each day, it's so much better than mirena.
I had Mirena inserted May 4th of this year, the insertion itself wasn't bad but I had some horrible cramping for a few hours afterwards. Each period that I've had in the last four months has decreased in amount but not so much for duration which is about 2 weeks of pantyliners at this point. Prior to mirena I was using 6-8 overnight pads a day for 4 or 5 days with no spotting. 1st cycle after insertion was 3or4 pads for 4 days with 16 days of spotting. 2nd cycle 2 or 3 pads a day for 4 days with 14 daya of spotting. 3rd cycle was 1 pad a day for a day with 14 days of spotting. 4th cycle was 2 days of multiple pantyliners then 12 days of spotting. Currently on cycle 5 and it's a pantyliner. Im going to give this iud a full year but I'm really hoping atleast the duration will short to pre-iud length but no period would be great. If things go well I plan on keep using mirena till menopause and Im currently 35
Absolute worst decision I ever made. I decided to try Mirena as a few of my friends use it and had no complaints but for me it has been a nightmare. It's been in for over 6 months and I literally bleed about 90% of the time. I went back to the Dr and she did an internal exam and sent me for an ultrasound to see if it was sitting in the right spot and everything checked out there. It's certainly an awesome form of birth control because if you're bleeding ALL the time you sure aren't having sex! This has taken not only a mental toll but a toll on my relationship as well. My Dr asked me to be patient and see if it levels out but it hasn't at all. I have an appointment in a week to have it removed and I can't wait, sorry I ever got it in the first place. May work for some women but obviously not all and in my case it's been a bloody(pun intended) nightmare.
At 39 with fibroids and heavy bleeding, it made total sense and it worked for many years. Now, 10 years and 3 mirenas later,it was doing more harm than good. Within a week of having it removed my sex drive and physiological responses to stimulation returned. Intercourse was no longer painful. The constant spotting stopped entirely. The bloating in my lower abdomen disappeared. It was a transformation that was obvious. While my gyno had been suggesting therapy, all I needed was to have the Mirena removed. Don't get me wrong, at the time it served its purpose but at some point, it became a negative and no medical professional thought to eliminate it. I'm happy to say after having the Mirena removed, I am off the list for a hysterectomy with normal periods. Fortunately I don't require it for birth control as my husband has had a vasectomy. I'm glad I decided to have the Mirena removed and had this trial period before my doc did an unnecessary hysterectomy.
Today I just had my second Mirena put in - had first one from Sept 2013 to today. When they put it in, on both occasions, it was uncomfortable and some pressure - nothing unbearable by any means. 5 years ago on the first day I had cramps and I'm experienceing the same thing today - I know tomorrow I'll be fine. In the last five years I've had very speratic periods with hardly any bleeding - maybe a day or two. For sure something that is worth having to me
I have had it for 4 years. It was painful upon insertion, about 1 min of pain and 1 day of uncomfortableness. But totally worth it!! Since then I have had hardly any side effects. Occasional cramping and tender breasts. I don't get a period on it, they say that can happen if you naturally have lighter periods. Overall happy with it.
My insertion was a long and tricky one (1.5hrs). I'm on day 4 and I'm still bleeding. It's just spotting now though compared to the first and second day which made it feel as if I was on day 1 of my period. As of right now I still can't get my mind off the fact that there is a device inside of me and I don't know if it's a psychological thing, but it's been making me feel uneasy. I'm feeling a bit of pressure here and there on my left side today. Been keeping a log daily in case something occurs and need to tell the doctor or someone how I've been since the insertion. I feel like I have been a bit missy lately though. I told myself that I will try this out for 3-6 months and see how it is perhaps even 7 months. Will check back in a month to give updates.
I had mirena placement just over a month ago. My sex life has been nonexistent. The brown discharge is never ending, your lady bits don't get a chance to breathe which results in a odor from pads/panty liners. I have been getting sharp pains in both ovaries bouts of nausea and dizziness. I will be making a appointment next week to get this thing out of me!
So the real reason I had the mirena placement is because my periods were extremely heavy and causing me to be anemic. I was tired of changing my pads & super plus tampons on an hourly basis. Yes I had to use both at the same time because I was that heavy. I was desperate. My doctor suggested the Mirena. So I had it placed on my third day of my cycle. My second and third days are HORRIBLE. A complete nightmare. I was warned that it may cause heavier bleeding. I thought... how much worse could it be than the cycles I've grown accustomed this past year. So i was expecting the worse. Oh and behold, day #3 was delightful. Aside from a little cramping here and there because my uterus was adjusting, all was good. My periods were also lasting like 7-8 days. The doctor informed me that I may have spotting here and there. Come the 5th day of my cycle (2nd on mirena) all bleeding stopped. I had slight spotting on the 5th day of using Mirena, but it was one time for lke maybe 5 minutes. I know I haven't been on it nearly long enough to see if and/or how my body will adjust to but so far it's been WONDERFUL to me. I cannot complain at all.
My period were extremely irregular and the back cramps I got when on them were pretty bad so the month after I turned 18 I got Mirena put in ( no I had not had a kid yet). I took 2 advil before the appointment and the insertion felt like a very targeted cramp that lasted 5 seconds. I was on my feet in a minute and out the door driving in 5. I really do think it depends on your pain tolerance. My first period after was pretty regular if not maybe a little shorter and then I stopped having period all togeather. Mirena is a high dose hormone IUD so this can happen. I have had it for five years now. It didn't do anything for my acne. I definitely noticed some breast tenderness but it was sporadic. I am getting this one taking out and a new one in next week. I considered Kyleena but its lower dosing and I really liked not having a period these last five years. I am a little concerned about the removal pain.
I'm 25 years old and I got the mirena IUD put in in 2014. After a month of having my period (everyday) I didn't get my period anymore. A year later, I had a dry cough for the next 2 years. Then in November of 2017 I noticed that my right arm was swollen, twice the size. I didn't think anything of it so I proceeded to go to the gym & attempted to do a spin class. Within 5 minutes I started noticing shortness of breath. So I went to the emergency room & they did some tests & told me that I had a blood clot in my armpit & immediately went on blood thinners. They also told me that if I didn't go to the hospital my heart could've stopped that week. A week later I got a CAT scan because my arm blew up again & they saw that I also had a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in my right lung). I was on blood thinners for 4 months (which made me severely depressed — couldn't leave my bedroom) & have to now take baby aspirin everyday. I never thought this would happen to me; especially at 24 years old (2017). I have never even had health insurance before this because I am extremely healthy. Please be aware that this could happen!
I have had the Mirena for a month now and I have seen no side affects so far. I didn't take any Advil or pain relievers before I went in to get it placed and the worst pain of the whole experience was the placement. All it felt like was bad cramps. There were a couple sharp pains but they were only a few seconds long. Overall, I left feeling only slightly uncomfortable. The next day I went to work and felt no pain. I was expecting it to be a lot more painful than it has been.
I had the Mirena placed on the 18th of July. I have bleed every day since, not heavy, but constantly. I have had intense ovarian cyst pain on both sides. I have been beyond exhausted. I make it to work, and that is it. I have had no energy, or desire to do anything. My life has suffered. I am at severe depression level. I can still feel the thing inside, almost like it scratches in my uterus, at times. All the info says to give Mirena 6 months to a year. At this rate, I will be ready to blow my brains out! I see the doctor for a follow up the 1st of September. I am asking for other options. I want this thing out of me!
I do NOT recommend. I had it implanted on advice from a doctor. Kept for full five years because of cost and unsure that side effects experienced were related, as I was already a living a highly stressful life and doctors had no advice. Side effects included severe depression, severe mood swings, constant discharge and extended periods, sudden acne on chest and back, and cramping. Had to pay for dermatologist and oral contraceptive anyway in attempt to rid the acne. Almost lost my partner from my mood swings and loss of libido. Having been off it now for a couple of years, I can definitively say that Mirena caused the above symptoms and I regret not having it taken out sooner. It took at least a year to re-regulate my body. Terrible experience all around.
I got my first Mirena to treat suspected endometriosis pain and heavy periods. Besides having a difficult insertion that required ultrasound guidance (very retroverted uterus and crooked cervix), it was not really painful and I immediately stopped having periods within a week. It lasted about 3 1/2 years before I started getting spotting and cramping again. I just had it replaced (around 4 years total time since the first one was put in) and removal and insertion of the new one was essentially painless and so much easier than the first one. It has only been 6 hours and my cramps have already stopped after the insertion and I had mild spotting from the procedure for a couple hours, which has also stopped. I love my mirena and it's absolutely worth trying for anyone with severe periods and pain.
I got the mirena as for me it sounded like the best option, not having to worry about it for 5 years and it has less hormones than the pill. Before I went in I had 2 ibprofen and an oxy. I got it in just as my period was ending as the cervix is generally a bit more dilated and to minimise bleeding. For background I am 21 with no kids. The procedure was fairly painless and just felt some slight cramping as the doctor put it in the cervix. The day I got it in (Monday) I couldn't get out of bed for around 5 hours after as it was just serious cramping which is normal and is your body adjusting, Day two was normal period like cramps and slight discharge. Day three (Today) no cramping and no discharge and feeling great. Don't be discouraged by one persons negative experience always try it out for yourself, you may love it and its not really a big deal to get it taken out if you don't. Top tips would be to get it at the end of your period so your cycle stays similar and to keep yourself from bleeding earlier than expected and stay relaxed! Make sure the cords are trimmed so you can only just feel them as my doctor left mine too long and I have to go in again to get them, trimmed.
I got mirena inserted 9 days ago 5 days later started feeling something pockeing me scheduled an appointment to have it checked out Doctor did an ultrasound the mirena product was no where to be found Doctor said it might have fallen out but if it did I shouldn't be having this pain on just a little above my vagina area close to my left hip so anyways Doctor sent me for X-ray pictures thinks it might be in my abdomen, how?? I don't know waiting for the results until Monday . Doctor said if it's in my abdomen I will be having surgery, overall do not get this product.
I had Mirena placed in April 2018 and took it out in 4 weeks. The side effects were immediate! One of them: blurry vision, sides of depression, very heavy bleeding for 4 weeks! And constant headache ( mind i never had headaches in the past). I had half of my thyroid removed 3 years ago and was very cautious about my TSH level. Before placing Mirena- it was 1.43, so perfectly fine! After 4 weeks of having Mirena i decided to check my TSH again and it jumped to 4.59! I was furious because all the doctors said that it shouldn't affect my hormone level at all! So all these depression signs etc- it was the result of Mirena. In addition- my husband felt it inside of me:( I took it out after 4 weeks and all side affects went away after a couple of weeks. Plus- i had my blood test again tp check out the tsh- and it went back to 1.49 after 4 months since mirena removal! It means Mirena had a very strong effect onto thyroid hormone! Which should be specified in the precautions. Overall- a horrible experience and i would definitely not recommend it to anyone. In addition- the hormones mirena is producing- is not customised, means it's the same dose for everyone. They are not minding per
I just had it inserted a while ago so this is an INSERTION REVIEW. There was no pain at any point. It wss uncomfortable, but never hurt. Only after the procedure was done did I get a super intense strong cramp. Now for the past day I've had really, really bad cramps. I am not going to lie at all, these cramps make me catch my breath. I know its my uterus getting used to a foreign object tho so its all good. If the pain subsides, I'd be super happy. Will review again after long term use
Dont do it. Weight gain. Alot. No libido. Joint pain. Fatigue. Had it for a year and having hysterectomy because they cant find it to remove it. Biggest mistake ever
I can wait to get mine remove. At first I had know side affects but after 3 months I been having severe pain pain where I can't move I can't stand for a long time. I can't stand straight.
i had it inserted yesterday and it wasn't bad at all! i read so many many reviews on the insertion and how bad it hurts and so much cramping, bleeding and the pinch of it when it went it in. but it was not bad at all! just some pressure... but of course there is... they're opening you up to put a foreign object up there. of course i've had some mild cramping and some bleeding ... but nothing i wasn't forwarned about. i am so happy with it so far and i'm glad i went through with you. if you're in the edge about it.... i say get it... if you don't like it... it can be removed
I had the Mirena placed in about April of 2012 and removed September of 2012. This was the worst experience of my life. I had heavy periods and the doc recommended the Mirena to help control them. I had spotting, PMS, and cramping the whole time it was in me. It took several very painful procedures to get it place for whatever reason. Upon removal I had severe hemorrhaging and ended up having a hysterectomy. DO NOT USE THIS PRODUCT.
So I have been on the mirena for just over 4 years now. At first it was a breeze, I didn't bleed for months and I felt great, only issue is I felt like I had completely lost my appetite and ended up losing about a stone. Whenever I had/ have sex with my partner there's a 50% chance I'll end up having BV. I've read this is a downfall to having the mirena but it's got to the point now I'm going to have it removed earlier than the 5 year period. If you're considering getting it, my overall opinion is a positive one. All I will say is when you get it fitted take someone with you because I had the most horrific cramps where I actually felt like I was going into labour. This only happened for one day but it's quite painful.
I had the mirena inserted after the birth of my first baby. It sounded great, once every 5 years, the possibility of no periods, cramps reduced. Two weeks later I needed to have another procedure done by my doctor and upon inspection he found that my mirena had fallen halfway out. Thankful that I caught it before I got pregnant. The time I had it seemed fine though. Insertion was not as painful for me as I've seen others say. About as uncomfortable as a pap with cramping for a day or two after. Disappointed that it didn't work for me, just be aware that this can happen.
I got my Mirena IUD just an hour or 2 ago. So i will only review on the insertion. I got myself all worked up over some of the reviews and you know what it wasn't bad at all. My doctor kept me talking the whole time it literally took maybe 2 minutes for her to complete the procedure. She told me I would feel some pain all I felt was a quick pinch and it was over with. I immediately started cramping it wasn't that bad and it has subsided since I got home. I took 2 midol prior to my appt. I am laying around in bed with an icy hot patch on my lower back to help with the cramping but I feel great. So far so good!! I will review again in a few months !!
I had Mirena for 5 years from 2009-2014 (after the birth of my 1st child), then after my 2nd pregnancy I had it again from 2015-2017 when I had it removed to have our 3rd child. We chose to not use birth control after our 3rd and are currently trying for our 4th. However, once they are born, we fully plan to go back to Mirena. Everyone's body is different and I do know people who have had their uterus punctured, had the device expel itself, or minor issues such as headaches. However, for myself, this has been a God send. There is a long period of bleeding and spotting after the original insertion, but having worn them for 5 years, and then again for 2 years, I am very happy with it. Little to no complications and peace of mind.
This was an awful experience. I had really high hopes for Mirena too. I had taken the pills for a really long time but wanted to try the IUD because all my friends said they have had great experiences. The process did hurt but it was after where the nightmare began. As soon as I got up from the table, my mom drove me home and the cramps began. The pain was so unbearable that I threw up and passed out. I was out for the rest of the day and was in bed and didn't walk. The rest of the week, the cramps began to get worse, the heating pad and ibuprofen were my best friends. It was to the point where I couldn't sleep or eat anymore. My main focus was my pain. I knew it was going to take a while for my body to adjust, but I just couldn't last anymore. It lasted me a week. I went back to the ob. They took it out. No pain at all but still in bed with some leftover cramps. Hopefully it will go away by tomorrow.
I'm Commenting for my wife. So please keep that in mind. When My wife decided to Go on Mirena it was after the birth of our ONLY child. She gained a tremendous amount of weight and is struggling to lose it. She also no longer gets her periods and has developed Ovarian cyst. Thankfully we do have one child but we both believe that because of this product her health and being able to have another child will forever be out of reach.
I have two kids and I am 99% sure I dont want anymore, I'm terrible at remembering to take the pill (that's how my second child got here) and condoms are unreliable break, come off during sex, etc. I needed something low maintenance so I got Mirena inserted in Feb of 2018. It cause a bit of cramping but it was bearable , took a few advil b4 I went in. Periods have gotten went from normal lighter and lighter, no complaint there. My sex drive is the same, haven't noticed any side effects. Not worrying about pregnancy has GREATLY improved my sex life, me and my partner love it. Hes kind of large and he claims he can feel it and I believe he can but only on the tip. Not a big deal. So far so good I feel it was a great decision and I'm glad I got it!
I'm on my second Mirena (7 yrs total) Had the first one for 5 yrs and got it replaced. I have no periods and have never noticed any side effects. Besides my doctor having trouble finding it to replace it 2 years ago Mirena has been great to me. Although I would caution anyone that pain of finding it and removing it was horrible. But for me it was worth it since Mirena lasts 5 years with no periods nor side effects.
So I haven't had my IUD long but I had my son a few months ago and I was on the depo shot but that made me bleed so much so I switched to the IUD and it's been a good experience so far my bleeding has already turned to spotting. As far as the procedure, I may have a different experience than some since I've had a child and since I got it a few months after giving birth, but the procedure itself wasn't that bad. It was the same as when they check your cervix but with a tiny pinch at the end. It's uncomfortable but it didn't hurt for me I was up and walking around taking care of my son right after. I've had small cramps here and there but honestly I am loving it so far. If there are any issues in the future I will make an update!
Awful. Do not listen to the common narrative. The insertion hurts. I am 32 with 2 kids. After #2 I was dumb and got talked into this from a pushy midwife. I feel like I had no control, ahe kept saying it waa "so great" for poat partum women. Insertion felt like someone waa knifing my uterus. Heavy periods, emotional, painful sex. Finally after vague pain I went to the doctor (my PCP) She ended up sending me for various tests and I was told I had scarring on my uterus from this stupid thing. I had it removed (also so painful) and luckily no real lingering side effects except I still have painful heavy periods. I dont know why thr medical world lies so much about this method. It is not just a sinple procedure and that's it! Ps. My friend had it and got pregnant with it in.
Heavy period, cramps, uncontrollably with have sex, hurting, and have problems in my uterus, very big,. Definitely never recommend this products.
Horrible migraines, bled several times a month. Stayed depressed.
I am 33 years with 2 children. I decided to use a birth control for the first time. The insertion was painful! I experienced severe cramps right after insertion. Had constant headaches. Sexual activity was painful after a month. Penetration was a horror. Thankfully I only had this device for 3 months. After removal Continue to have cramps and sexual penetration is still painful after 6 months. There is a strange sensation on the outer wall of my vagina. If your reading this please use another method and research don't take your doctors word.
I had the Mirena for almost a year. In my experience it was great, balanced my hormones, fixed up my skin, it was convenient and no unplanned pregnancy. With one major downfall... Everytime I had sex I would bleed and it hurt. Sometimes during it would feel uncomfortable and my partner could feel it which was uncomfortable for him. But the hours after and the following day was excruciating. Like the worst period pain and I also seemed to get a surge of hormones. I had it checked, it was positioned correctly. As a result my sex life dissipated. My partner was scared to hurt me and I was scared of the resulting pain. Unfortunately it did not agree with my anatomy so it seems but my best friend has had it for years with no issues.
Ok, so After years of using the withdrawal method with my husband I finally manned up and got Mirena inserted yesterday. I knew it was going to be painful and never having had kids at 34 years old, I took 800 mg of ibuprofen 1 1/2 hour before And 1.25 mg of Xanax an hour before. I got in there and talked to them for a little bit, laid down, felt the speculum, felt some tube thing, and then felt a sharp ass pinch. I grabbed my tits and said, “shit!” The nurse told me to begin breathing which I did and the doctor clipped the wires and it was done! I began to almost start crying afterwards telling them that I thought it was going to be so much worse and it wasn't near as bad as I had imagined it would be. It really wasn't that bad, Just about 10 seconds of pain. It wasn't comfortable by any means either but I thought it was going to feel like they were ripping my uterus out with a trowel. Anyway, I have been on the Depo-Provera shot in the past for about six years which caused me to gain weight. I'm hoping the hormones from Mirena doesn't pose any negative side effects.
I got the Mirena a year ago and I have not experienced anything that my doctor did not warn me about. It was not the most comfortable thing to get inserted but the potential pain, discomfort and bleeding was explained to me. My doctor actually talked to me the whole time during the procedure and made sure I was ok after inserting it. I will say my cramping felt like contractions, but then again, I did just put a foreign object in my body. I have gained some weight but I can't contribute that solely to the Mirena as I have another medical condition. My periods went from normal to light to just random spotting. I do get cramping some months but they are far and view between. Overall my experience has been great and I pray it stays that way. I plan to replace it with a new one in four years.
I just got my Morena replaced after 5.5 years. The most painful thing was the removal of the old IUD, but that was minimal because I took Aleve before the appointment. It works like gang busters for birth control and I haven't had a period in over 5 years! The only side effects I've experienced is malasma (pregnancy mask) from the hormones and some minor hair loss. Other than that, it's the best decision I've ever made!
I have had the Mirena IUD inside of me for one year now, I am 34 years old, never had kids. My periods had been very light until last year. I originally got this IUD because my periods were getting very heavy and almost daily. After changing to different birth control pills nothing was working so the doctor suggested this IUD. She had lied to me and told me it was an easy procedure that wasn't painful. God, that was the most painful experience ever. I even yelped on the table as she was inserting and she told me to calm down. I managed to get a cab home and passed out from the pain. I was in pain for a few weeks after. It has been one year since I've had this thing in me and guess what, still bleeding, almost daily and my strings are lost. So another doctor recommended for me to keep it in for the "benefits" because trying to find my strings and removing it will cause more pain. I bleed so much and so often that my boyfriend this past year has lost interest in having sex with me. I will be getting it removed in the next month and hopefully will find something else to stop the bleeding.
Lorena is one of the best desiscions of my life. The insertion was the worst pain of my life (broken ribs and tailbone and pelvis aren't as bad) the doctor didn't recommend I take a pain killer before so I was not able to walk for almost 2 hours. They said my cervix was so small it might not fit. But this is nothing compared to an unplanned pregnancy, so I'm about to get my 3rd one. 5 years of no periods, no menstrual issues and it's awesome. The fact that I can prepare for this pain is awesome. The second time it was worse. I couldn't walk for a week. But I have been period free for 10 years now!!!! I have no mood issues and I love Mirena!!! - Amber age 32
I'm 48 and had the Mirena IUD inserted about 6 months ago due to heavy monthly bleeding, anemia and complications from endometriosis. Having it inserted was uncomfortable and a little painful for sure but my gynecologist was amazing and she made it as quick and painless as possible. She prescribed 2 Motrin prior to coming to the appointment and I think that really helped. I had some minor cramping for about a week or two afterwards and I bled slightly on and off for about 2 months. Since then, I have to say I'm extremely happy with this product. I no longer have periods which is HUGE as I used to lose a lot of blood every month which drained me of energy. I was always tired and had to push myself to do anything. I've never been athletic but now I have the energy so I'm walking every day, started Yoga and started on a healthy Weight Watchers diet. I'm feeling healthier and more energetic than I've felt since my 30's! I've lost 15 lbs too which is obviously due to the diet and exercise but I don't know that I would have done any of this without the health benefits from the Mirena. It doesn't work for everyone but for me it has been wonderful so far!
I had Mirena inserted after the birth of my first child. The cramps and spotting went on for five months after being inserted. My breasts were sore and tender, I gained close to 25 pounds. My doctor said that the Mirena was not to blame for these problems but I know that they were the sole cause for my issues. After a year, I had the Mirena removed and after a few months, all of my issues miraculously disappeared. I dont care what any doctor says, I know my body and I know that this device wreaked havoc on my body. Never again will I insert another birth control device into my body, it isn't natural and our bodies do what they're supposed to do every month.
I am a young adult with no children and I had a Mirena for a year and a half until I HAD to have it removed because of the awful acne I developed. Being young you'd expect it, as before I had Mirena I had acne but this was unbearable. When I went to see a dermatologist she told me that she tells every patient of hers struggling w acne w Mirena that it will 1000% screw up your skin. I have friends on mirena who have flawless skin but if you're prone to acne i would reccomend a pill instead of this. Not to mention, when I had it inserted I had unbearable cramps for weeks where I could barely get out of bed and bled for 4 months following the insertion. Also there would be weeks were I could literally feel the iud poking inside of my body which just felt like hell. Oh and don't forget the 20 + pounds I gained!!! I'm also a person who deals with anxiety and depression, and this did not help. I had little will to do much. Only thing that stayed the same was my sex drive and even that was lacking. I'm not sure why I dealt with this for so long. I think people fall into the traps of the IUDs because they're easy but I'll tell you at the end of the day it's NOT WORTH IT.
Other than it was very painful to get it inserted. I had experienced the following. Weight gain, bloating constant urinating, cyst acne, painful intercourse! Please DO NOT get this. I wasted so much $$ trying to figure out why I had been getting scaring and cysts that made me look like a drug addict! This was a horrible experience I have ever had. Hated this product
On here to possibly help others feel better if they experience something similar. This is to the date the worst medical decision I've ever made for myself. The insertion was horrendous and I have multiple tattoos so here I was thinking my pain tolerance was pretty high. The first week I would wake up pretty much nightly with a completely numb arm, which would spiral me into an anxiety attack. I've never had this symptom ever before. Embarrassed as I am to say, I had the thing in for just over a week. The doctor completely denied that it had anything to do with my symptoms and made me feel bad for my decision to take it out. NEVER AGAIN!!!!!
Had the mirena inserted 3 hours ago mainly for birth control but I have fibroids as well so I do have heavy periods. The insertion wasn't to bad I watched videos to distract myself. Some slight bleeding afterwards but I took motrin 2 hours before my appointment, I reccomend that as I haven't had any cramping from it. Hopefully my body agrees with this form of contraception.
I am writing this for all the women who have just gotten their Mirena and are thinking of having it removed. I have had my Mirena for almost 6 years. I love it and will be replacing my current one with a new one very soon. The first 3 months were rough though, I had quite a lot of cramping, but after that it was smooth sailing. I love that I don't have periods and don't have to think about taking a pill every day. One of the best decisions I made.
Bayer should be embarrassed to admit they make it. It has cause me to bleed every day with the most horrible cramps I have ever experienced in my life. This drug should be removed from the market and Doctors who recommend it should know they are not working in the interest of their patients. I noticed there is no place on the official web site to leave a message and that's probably the smartest thing they ever did. I wish these thing came with a return policy.
The Inserting part did hurt and uncomfy like a pap smar but 2 advil stopped that....but since having the mirena i have yet to stop bleeding (never heavy) the doctor told me later at check up that i can bleed up to 6months so I've yet to know if it works great...i CAN'T have sex. If it doesn't stop by the 6month I'm having it removed. No other side effects occur for me expect the constant bleeding
I was told by my Dr that Mirena would be the best fit for me after giving birth to 2 kids in 2 years. I didn't want it at all, I had heard bad things about it. But my Dr assured me that there was little to no risk at all. I ended up caving and got it. Well fast forward 2 years later... I started experiencing extreme pain, cramping and pressure. It took over a year to figure out for sure what was wrong with me. My doctors all thought it was low back pain. It turns out my Mirena not only moved out of place but broke in multiple peices! I now need to have a surgery to remove the device. I would not recommend!!
I am 43 years of age and have two teenage kids. I have had heavy periods and severe Iron deficiency. On my last scan Dr picked a polyp , Nabothidian cyst. So she did a D& C and removed the polyp and inserted the Mirena. I did all the above under General anaesthesia. Today is my fourth day and have been feeling normal and just a slight period like pain the first day. I am glad I did it under general anaesthesia. I took a few days off to rest and take it easy. Eagerly awaiting for my first period after insertion. Sometimes we are gripped with fear.As women ...at times we just have to take that leap of faith and do it...so if you out there contemplating..I would say give it a go and if it does not work for you ... it can be pulled out. I wish I had done it much earlier.
My application experience was very similar to many other women. It was really painful and I had lots of cramping after. Next was the mood and the weight gain. I work out regularly and eat very clean yet I wasn't able to lose and I ended up gaining a few pounds. Over all I would describe myself as a go getter, ambitious, happy, healthy person and Mirena made me feel the complete opposite. I didn't want to clean my house, no ambition to work out, I was sad, some could say I seemed depressed. I made the choice of removing Mirena once and for all. I immediately started to feel better. My advice for women is to research Mirena and read all the reviews (the good and the bad) before investing in this decision. I've had friends that are using Mirena currently and it works for them like a charm. I myself did not have that success story. At the end of the day we are very in tune with our bodies and know what feels right and what doesn't. All the best ladies!
I got a Mirena due to low iron and it has been fantastic - I haven't had a period in 3 years and I don't miss them! My iron is up, my energy is much higher and I am always shocked when friends complain about heavy periods when there is such an effective solution they can use. Insertion was painful but very quick and worth it after the first two months of no period!!
Insertion was very painful. My doctor said I had an "odd tilt" to my cervix and uterus, making insertion difficult. I took an ibuprofen when I got home and was fine. Low rating due to having severe depression and suicidal thoughts that started in the week after insertion. I had it taken out after a month and had ALL symptoms of depression went away in about 5 days. If I had known this was a risk, I would have still had it placed, but would have taken it out as soon as I started feeling depression instead of waiting till I was having suicidal thoughts.
I had the Mirena put in after the birth of my second son. For me the insertion wasn't painful, mild pressure and a bit of a pinch and it was done. I had about six months of irregular spotting while my body adjusted to the hormones. That was very difficult for me to deal with because I never knew when it would happen. In addition, during the first six months I had an increase in moodiness, depression, and anxiety. I felt like I was walking around in a fog. Around month eight, emotionally I felt numb. I was not able to achieve any kind of emotional up or down. It was like I was stuck. Physically I completely lost my sex drive. When I did have sex it took an incredibly long time to climax. I had the Mirena removed at a year under protest by my doctor. I was told that the Mirena couldn't possibly be the cause of my symptoms. About a month after removal I began to feel better emotionally and my sex drive returned. Mirena did not work out for me. I will say however the upside to Mirena is that it nearly eliminated my period. I was able to get by on pantiliners alone. That was not enough for me however to keep it in.
I had Mirena inserted 10 months ago for contraception as well as heavy bleeding issues....VERY heavy bleeding issues. The insertion was a bit painful and uncomfortable but nothing compared to bad cramps? I guess everyone's pain tolerance is different though. I doubted it the first 6 months and seriously considered having it removed as there was random bleeding/spotting/discharge at different times and it was starting to affect my sex life, however, less than the bleeding issues that had plagued my life for so many years prior. Now 10 months in, I am glad I stuck it out. My periods are almost nonexistent (it is light spotting for the most part but lasts a bit longer at about just over a week, but I will take that over having to be confined to the house or go to the hospital and get blood transfusions and being half dead all the time!) Everyone said just stick it out for a bit, and I'm so far glad I did. I guess it's still relatively new so I will see how it pans out in the near future. Overall a good experience considering what I was facing before.
I just had it inserted 4 hours ago and it went better than i thought it would. Barely felt anything when it was being put in. Maybe a super light cramp and thats it. Haven't had any cramping at all since.
I had Mirena inserted for heavy bleeding due to fibroids. The insertion was mildly painful, I took 400mg ibuprofen 2 hours before to the procedure. The pain felt like a BAD menstrual cramps, less than what I read from reviews and accepted another 600 mg offered me after the insertion. A noticed a significant reduction in the bleeding during my period , I switched to regular pads from overnight pads that I used to change every hour plus a tampoon. The only issues I have are having to use pantliners or light pads every day because of spotting, sometimes like 6 hours period like bleeding, pale yellow discharge on some days and bloating. It will be six months soon, I am weighing the benefits versus the side effects and will decide on what to do. ( I will probably endure it, memory of those HEAVY periods is not pleasant).
In Sept of 2014, I got my period and it didn't stop (I was 46). After a month, I went to a GYN specialist since I was panicked that I might have fibroids or uterine cancer. After many tests, they couldn't find anything wrong with me. The GYN recommended a Mirena to control my bleeding and I reluctantly agreed. The insertion was definitely not a pleasant experience, but I was desperate for a solution so gritted my teeth. After a few hours, I didn't have any pain, but continued to bleed and spot off and on for about a month. After that, all bleeding stopped and I didn't have any more bleeding until I had to have it removed 5 years later. It was wonderful freedom! However, getting another one was problematic since my prior GYN had retired. I have a tilted and curved uterus, so the new GYN had problems inserting. I have a Kyleena now for two months and am waiting to see if it is as effective as the Mirena was.
As a 19 year old, who had never had kids before I was petrified. Did possibly the worst thing and did research after research before the procedure. But honestly wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be, the pain was bad but nothing I couldn't tolerate, like a really bad period cramp. After insertion I had what felt like period cramps for a couple of hours but again nothing I hadn't experienced before during a period. Would definitely recommend, a simple procedure not only to combat heavy periods but to protect me against pregnancy for 5 years!! Well worth it
I LOVED IT!!! Best decision I ever made. I'm Young, very active, involved in sports & gone a lot. So taking the pill was always bad for me. The insertion only felt a little crampy. Then they gave me a shot to ease the pain. I went in for 2 different check ups & everything was perfect! Most days I forget it's there. No reason to worry about the pill. I haven't expierenced any weight gain or acne. Which is great!!! My last periods have been GREAT! No cramps, less flow. The only thing I would warn is you WILL spot quite a bit for the following 2 months after insertion. That is TOTALLY normal. And then it goes away. I feel so great & love having painless periods. I would recommend this to anyone! Young or old. Kids or not. It's the best ever!!! Plus it last 5 years! The best thing!
So this review is in reference to the lady thinking about using it for her daughter. I am prone to depression.. btw take Host Defense stress made a world of a difference. Anyway I had the paraguard for a few years now issues until the last few months I'd bleed during sex.. so decided to try Mirena.. yes my period stopped but gosh for 3 months I was tired, major anxiety, crying for no reason.. took it out after 3 months and back on my Paraguard.. I'd rather have some extra spotting then be an emotional wreck..
I know the Mirena works for some people, but I had a very difficult time with it. The insertion for me was so painful they couldn't place it on the first try. I had to go back and have a cervical block (local anesthesia). This helped a lot. If it is excruciating for you to have pelvic exams (it is for me), I recommend telling your doctor and seeing if you can have anesthesia the first time. Afterwards, I was in a lot of pain from cramps (they were different from my normal cramps, which are already very painful). The worst cramps were the first few weeksto month, but for me they never went away. I also bleed everyday I had the IUD and became anemic. I kept it in for over 6 months, but I wish I had advocated better for myself and got it out much sooner. I hope it works for you but if it isn't, make sure to advocate for yourself.
Insertion Only Review - The entire duration was approximately 2 minutes by a MIDWIFE who was super pro and has done hundreds. I felt a couple of fast/quick cramps then one intense cramp that lasted about 30-45 seconds. Since the time of placement 4 hours ago I have felt nothing. I took 2 Advil prior to the procedure and nothing since. Rating the procedure - easy, fast, pretty painless. Note: I am 38, 3 kids - both c-section, healthy.
— insertion review only — This this hurt like a mother and I almost had them take it out right then because I was crying so hard. Its been about 4 hours now and I've been sleeping and just laying in bed but it feels better. If you're willing to go through the pain then why not but just be aware, you've probably never hurt like this before (unless you've had kids).
I wanted to review this because I used Mirena for birth control about 12 years ago. I am now researching it for my adult daughter and realize that there are a lot of negative reviews so wanted to show a positive review. The insertion for me was a little uncomfortable but no more than an annual exam and PAP smear. I didn't have any spotting or bleeding afterwards and after a few months my period stopped permanently. I do think I was a little sensitive to the hormone and in retrospect see that I had a small amount of acne due to this. I was very happy with this as a birth control as I never had to think about it. My OBGYN suggested to leave the strings long as it would be less likely to bother my partner. My only concern for my daughter is she does suffer from depression and hormones can make this worse. I am a little concerned about some people reporting anxiety also. That is why I'm not relying fully on my good experience and researching others experiences.
I had the Mirena placed in January. My entire life I had awful periods. They were heavy with major cramping and recently started with migraines. I'm 40 with 2 kids. After my 2nd my doctor put me on continuous BC pills, I gained weight, I was depressed, tired and couldn't figure out why. Thankfully I was sent to another doctor since mine was unavailable for my yearly and she told me how bad that pill was for my 40 year old body. I got the Mirena and I can live again. I'm not tired, I'm happy, I've lost 25 pounds and I have very little period. The insertion was easy, slightly painful but nothing compared to delivering a baby. I think it is either good for you or it isn't. For me it was worth the chance ...
Insertion was very painful for me and had to be done twice. Within a few weeks of insertion I got the worst period of my life for over 2 weeks. Huge clots, having to change my pad every 1-2 hours. After my period I started getting horrible stabbing pains. Despite not having sex for over a month I was diagnosed with PID. I was given antibiotics and I insisted the IUD be removed. I heard it works great for most. I'm just unlucky I guess.
I just had Mirena inserted. I've never had a baby, but I've had two abortions. The pain of that, plus the emotional toll, was horrendous than having this inserted. I'll see how it works out, but don't be scared. You feel some tugging and pinches, but nothing compared to a moderately heavy cramps. My dr. is amazingly patient. I hope it's worth it.
I had previously been taking the pill but had to get taken off of it due to my chronic migraines. I was sexually active so finding a birth control method that would not mess with my migraines was a challenge. Then my OBGYN and Neurologist suggested the Mirena. I was willing to give anything a try at this point. I looked up all these reviews and most were good but some were terrible. So it was intimidating. What was also uncomfortable was that my IUD insertion was the first time I had been looked at by my OBGYN so I felt kinda weird. BUT it is completely normal! My insertion took less than five minutes and they used a ultrasound to make sure the placement was most efficient. The insertion was painless for me, but the leading cramping the several hours after that was pure agony. (Nothing watching Harry Potter couldn't fix). Following that I spotted for about one month afterwards and after close to having it in for two years, I have no bleeding at all now. I will always suggest the Mirena to everyone! I LOVE MY MIRENA!!!!
Had twins and decided to get the mirena afterwards which I highly suggest you never get!!! First and foremost it messes with your anxiety to the point that one hince of nervousness can make your body feel very uncomfortable to the point where you think something is wrong immune wise. It was too the point that I wanted to feel calm so bad but couldn't relax my body and the only thing that would ease the tension was a shower and healthy eating. It became unbearable I would become nauseated out of no where. I've only had the device for about 8 months and already it was trying to take me down. The device will Harbor on your emotions and anxiety so if you have any life issues that stir up in the midst of treatment the tension can be so unbearable ..DON'T GET IT LADIES!!!! It messes with mood swings and your IMMUNE SYSTEM!!!!! Post to me getting it removed it's been a week so far and man when I tell you I feel like a spring chicken and feel very relaxed again I know that lil bitch was trying to take me down
I've had a funny stint with the Mirena coil. I had the Mirena implanted in 2016 after I feel pregnant and had an abortion. I was assured it was 99.98% effective. After some spotting for a few months and irregular periods, that got lighter each cycle, I now have no period which is a great positive of this contraceptive. Recently, after being unable to find the strings in my monthly self-scan, the doctor found a possible endometrioma cyst on my ovary. Let's stop there, the cyst was 6cm wide, which meant that the abortion performing doctor should have picked it up, and unlikely that it was caused by the Mirena. After a series of visits to the gyro, and key hole surgery, I was diagnosed with endometriosis. My surgeon implanted another Mirena. As far as side-effects go I've noticed acne around my chin and jaw, mood-swings, nervousness (but I am prone to anxiety and depressive moods) and maybe some weight gain (though I naturally lose and gain weight). I am undetermined whether I will stick it out with the Mirena, maybe I am going through a transition period (and I've had a lots of hardship and change lately) so my hormones are adjusting to the hormones changes, surgery etc....but
I promised I would come back after enough time on mirena. I got on it 2 yrs ago due to massive bleeding during periods. Horrible day altering blood clots, one after another. First of all the insertion was a breeze. I did have spotting right after and for about 6 months. After about 3 months I wanted to get it out. I contimplated the heavy clots over this constant drip. My dr said it does stop so I kept at it. I sometimes feel twinges or pain there but nothing major. No cramps. No weight gain. No mental issues. It's been two years now and I love it. I can wear tampons and panty liners. Took about a year to even out my periods to normal but I am so grateful to not have to hide out at home, change sheets, and bring extra clothes on heavy days. My periods are about 7 days but super light. So worth it.
I Love Mirena! I am on the last yr of my second implant. No more pieriods, cramping, babys! The worst part of it for me was when i had my first one removed in 2013 to try for baby #2 the bleed after removal it was like i just had a baby. it lasted over a month with golf ball size clots ended up in the hospital for blood loss, but after that 30days my normal cycle started agian. And baby number 2! was offical aboit 3 mo post removal. I only have 1yr left on this one, but hubs and i have been thinking of trying for 1 more baby. just not looking forword to removal and the super period.
I was on the Mirena for 2.5 years. I had it inserted at my 6 week postpartum check-up. First thing I noticed was extreme anxiety and I had really bad cramps and random spotting on and off the first two months. Once I got to about 6 months my body was used to it and I barely had a period and it eventually disappeared altogether. It also took away any pms symptoms or mood swings which I really LOVED about this BC. I had t removed recently because of the anxiety, brain fog, acne, and I strted having random spotting quite often for some reason. Sex was also quite painful with this birth control.
Mirena has been so worth it for me JUST for having lighter periods with no little or no cramping! After 6 months of almost continuous light spotting, I returned to regular periods, only SO much lighter!! For the birth control side, it's been easy breezy with nothing to think about and no side effects! I'm going on almost 5 years now.
I'm now on my 3rd mirena and I think it's Fab. I've not had a period for over a decade which is definitely the best side affect! My other two mirena coils were inserted while I was asleep (I had a couple of abortions unfortunately) but a few days ago I had my third one fitted whilst awake. I think I made a massive mistake in reading all the forums about how painful it was potentially going to be. I worked myself up into a anxious frenzy!! Let me just say, for me.. it didn't hurt at all. It felt a bit peculiar at certain moments for sure but it wasn't painful. I also had cramping that evening and a little bit of blood but nothing a hot water bottle couldn't fix. I'm now 3 days later and have no more spotting, no more cramping and am free to get on with life and sex until I get it whipped out when I'm ready for a baby ?? all I would say is, please don't be frightened of the insertation. I think more often than not, it's really not that bad. I'm a total big baby and it was absolutely nothing!
Pros: not having to take a pill everyday, light light light periods, no cramps or breast tenderness. Cons: terrible acne that became cystic on my face and back. I finally decided to get it removed (ouch!!)
I've had 2 Mirena's. 2008-2014, had it removed because it was expired, had a planned pregnancy, then had it put back in again 2015-current. The 2 times were extremely different. Not terrible just different. The 1st time it was dream. Within 6 months I barley had a period. 2nd time I'm 2.5 yrs in and it's just now starting to slow down and become lighter. No discomfort either times, just dissappointed because I was expecting no periods to now having one every 28 days. And now this past month it became lighter and a little shorter, but I've gain spotting days in between. So that kinda stinks. Not sure what will happen next, it will probably diminish by the time it needs to be replaced and I will have to start all over again.
I have had Mirena for almost 5 years now (I am 25) it has been a blessing! Getting it inserted was probably the worst pain I have ever felt in my life (and I have tattoos) but other than that it has been great. I have had no problems, but of course there are always people trying to talk me out of it and make me paranoid, so I always check my Mirena 1-2 times a year. I did have a friend who only had Mirena for 2 years before having to taken out due to discomfort; so it is not for everyone. But I love it! I will be changing mine out soon for a new one!
I have had it for about 7 months. The time that it takes me to reach orgasm has doubled or tripled... on this reason alone i am thinking of getting it removed. Everything else is fine really... although it might be causing mood related symptoms... hard to know for sure as you know that is part of life too. But for sure i think this has affected my ability to reach orgasm!!!
Horrible anxiety and depression!
i had my mirena placed in 2014,i have bad cramps sometimes and i spot occasionally. when i 1st had it inserted my partner had discomfort from being poked with the strings. but i haven't had any pregnancy scares and also no cycles just spotting
*JUST PLACED TODAY* I was told that this would be a good thing to get because it wouldn't hurt after having my baby, it would lighten or get rid of periods, and i wouldn't get pregnant. First of all, it hurt more than anything I ever had to experience during my whole pregnancy and delivery. And I've been in an awful amount of pain since it was put in 5 hours ago. Now I called and asked if this was normal, an they said yes. But if it is normal, why was I not told about it until now, and how do women put themselves through this. Will update more later if I decIde to keep it in.. but I don't think I will. Hopefully everyone else's experience is better than mine has been so far.
*INSERTION ONLY REVIEW* I wanted a birth control method with less hormones than the pill and it will be nice not to have to worry about taking the pill everyday. My doctor gave me a prescription for Cytotec to insert the night before the procedure to dilate/soften my cervix since I have never had children. The day of procedure I took a 800mg ibuprofen beforehand. Overall it took about 5 minutes from start to finish and I experienced some slight pain similar to a menstrual cramp and some cramping the rest of the day. Today is 2 days post insertion and I haven't had to use any pain killers at all. My doctor said I will likely bleed/spot but so far nothing..overall my insertion experience was easy and I'm glad many of these reviews saying it was excruciating pain did not scare me away from going through with it. I will post again when I can have a review for the Mirena itself!
I had the Mirena placed after my son was born in 2013. He was a birth control pill baby.... and I wasn't comfortable taking the pills again after. In the first 3 months I bled off and on. In the first year I noticed some deeper blackheads on my cheeks that I hadn't had issues with previously. But after the first year all of those “side effects” went away. I had no periods with Mirena, which was amazing, because without birth control I have periods every two to three weeks that last 7 days! After 4 years with the Mirena my husband and I wanted to try for a baby. I had the IUD removed and two months later I was pregnant! I just had my second Mirena placed, now that my daughter is 6 months old. I highly suggest this form of birth control.
I love Mirena! After having my daughter, I went back on Alesse that I had used for years before and started experiencing a bunch of side effects such as mood swings and weight gain. My doctor suggested Mirena and I absolutely love it. The insertion wasn't nearly as bad as I thought (a couple of minutes of discomfort, plus a couple of hours of light cramping afterwards), and I have had zero side effects on Mirena. Love not having to remember to take a pill every day!
I was told by doctors having a abortion to use the mirena, at that time it was really new. I kept the mirena in over 7 years, never experienced any changing in my weight, or dramatic changes to my body. I did have frequent migraines, and very moderate periods. I recently just got off it and I'm cramping like crazy. Prayerfully, it gets better.
Had Mirena for a year and had terrible symptoms including depression, loss of libido, bloating, constant spotting, and skin problems, BUT I did not get pregnant! So I suppose it should get a star. I've had similar issues with The Pill, so I suppose I should have seen the warning signs earlier. But hey, I guess it was worth the shot.
Please really research before having this implanted into your body. I decided to get the Mirena IUD after having my second child. I was about 9 months postpartum when it was implanted. The implant procedure itself was very uncomfortable, I cramped and bled a lot. For about 6 months I experienced bleeding and major cramps on a biweekly basis. I did go back to my doctor the implant was in place and she asked me to stick it out a little longer and to see if it got better. (She was positive that it would) Well a year in I was still bleeding and cramping. It did start to lesson after that, so against my better judgment I kept on with it. Every time that my husband and I had sex, I would start cramping and bleeding again. This obviously put a strain on our marriage. However I also started to gain a lot of weight, acne was worse, I experienced major migraines that were debilitating, and had major mood swings. After 2 years of all of this I decided to have it removed. Once removed my husband and I started trying for another baby, 6 years later we finally were pregnant. 6 YEARS (fertility doctors, treatments, diets, hormones, etc) I still to date have problems with the weight, and hormones.
Hey ladies, I wanted to leave a review so that maybe my experience can help others. I think the mirena is a great contraceptive for those that don't have pre-existing issues. I decided to go on the Mirena because birth control pills weren't working well with my body and I like the reassurance that I didn't have to take something everyday. During my time on the Mirena i experienced terrible acne, excess hair growth, loss of hair on my head, hyperpigmentation, fatigue, bad cramps & spotting. After all these complications I decided to go to the doctor and found out that I actually have PCOS and the mirena was making my symptoms worse. For actual birth control this worked great and didn't affect my moods but just be aware of what will work for your body and what doesn't.
I have had the mirena for 7 1/2 years with a lot of side effects. kept going to my doctor I thought I was losing sight at times . I went and got my eyes checked 2020 vision!!! I was always a happy go lucky person but in your 7 1/2 years I went on three different anxiety depression medication!!! I still can't believe my boyfriend is still with me ...I was having terrible! terrible! terrible! mood swings . I would cry ,I would laugh , I would freak the fuck out, I would not know why I was freaking out!! I gained 50 pounds! I was always tired! I had 0 Sex Drive ( like zero) I was always seeing stars ...I felt like crap but I didn't know it I thought it was something else then ,I had removed and I'm back!!!!!!! I don't think I'll ever be on birth control ever again in my life!! I'm the happiest I've ever been! women are not meant to be on birth control anyways , so I figure every birth control not only the mirena but every birth control has their own side effects!! you have good side effects and bad side effects! now I realize that the only good side effect I had on the mirena ,Was no periods for 7 1/2 years!
Please don't come on here and say "Oh, I don't know what everybody is complaining about. I just got mine inserted today or a week ago and I love it!" <------false advertising!!! Girls....give it 6 months to a year and let's see how you really feel. I bet half of you will have it removed due to pain or other side effects. You can not possibly make a judgement call like the above listed on the DAY YOU HAVE IT IMPLANTED. We all thought we loved it right away. Then you realize that the pain and discomfort don't just miraculously get better. When you feel the same way you did on the day you had it inserted weeks, months, even years later.....then you know and can actually share your review. I am 5 months post-removal and FINALLY feeling like I did before insertion. It's not for everybody, some love, some hate...but please...you look ignorant giving your opinion on the day of insertion unless it's an *INSERTION ONLY* review. Thank you for reading this and paying attention!!!
I had the mirena for only one month and then had it removed due to the severity of the side effects I was experiencing. Firstly, the insertion was terribly uncomfortable but that I was expecting so I dealt with it using Advil. Unfortunately, the cramping continued occasionally throughout the following weeks and was traumatizing during my first period with it. I was so nauseous and extremely dizzy that I did not go to work nor could I even drive to the doctor. According to my ultrasound the placement was correct and nothing was out of the ordinary but my gyno said it is Unfortunately how my body is reacting to the inserted foreign object. It would get better and normalize but with the stress of my job I did not have time and patience for that. I wanted the mirena for how easy it was and how rare the worse side effects are but I was the unlucky case. I would still highly recommend the mirena as I know from my doctor, I am a rare case. The dizziness subsided within 2 hrs of the removal and completely vanished within 48 hrs of the removal so it was fairly obviousl I made the right choice!
Hello ladies, these are my experiences with mirena. My 1st time going to get the mirena was extremely painful the doctor had to back out, I couldn't bare the pain and my cervix wouldn't open up with only the tools they had on hand. They recommended I reschedule as soon as I notice bleeding as I did so. So just this past Thursday 4/5 I returned having a slight period the doctor injected me with lidocaine to start the process oh no doc we gotta do something else this stuff still hurts soon after they added more lidocaine and I was just fine. Soon as the meds wore off I was in terrible pain and bleeding heavy but by the time I got off the table the bleeding stopped. I haven't bled since, my cramps haven't stopped yet, I'm swallowing a pill every 2-4hrs. I'm ok so far tho I'm going to give it a month until my next appointment to see if anything changes if not it will come out and I'll be seeking an abrasion. I so far recommend getting it.
I had been on the Tri-estarylla birth control pill since I was 11 years old due to heavy periods, cramping, and acne. I got the Mirena about 5 months ago as a 19 year old college student. Since I have had the Mirena, I have very light, cramp-free periods and only have to wear a panty liner during my heaviest days. My only side effect was my hormonal acne worsened. My mood swings have also decreased greatly. Overall, Mirena was 100% worth it for my situation. I definitely suggest getting one if your doctor recommends it!
Mirena didn't work out for me. After 10 weeks, I finally decided to have it removed today. The insertion was not bad, just some mild cramping and spotting that Advil helped take care of. But after about 1 month I started to experience bloating, pinching in my pelvic area, and weight gain due to water retention. Sex was painful for my husband and afterwards I would have cramps. I didn't have any issues after being on the pill for years but wanted to try Mirena at my doctor's suggestion.
I had Mirena in 2007 only because i was still a teen and did not want another baby soon. I got so fat after, experienced migraines,nausea and stress. It did help with my periods since I would always have terrible cramps before my baby, with Mirena I would only spot and no cramps. But I regret getting this IUD because now in 2018 I have not been able to conceive after 6 years of being off of Mirena. Doctor said Mirena caused me to get cysts and messed up my uterus. Please do not use Mirena!
I'm writing this review having had the Mirena placed this morning. I read many of the reviews and was anticipating a very uncomfortable and painful procedure. A little background, I have three children and I feel this might be one contributing factor to my experience. I'm 5'8”, 165 lbs., and 35 years old. I honestly barely felt anything. There was no cramping or sharp pains with the procedure. I've had routine paps where I felt more. I'm sitting here two hours after the procedure and I have no cramping. I don't even feel like I had anything done. I do recommend taking ibuprofen beforehand. I took 600mg. I'll leave an updated review at the three month mark to address any side effects.
I had Mirena inserted three months after I gave birth to my first baby. The insertion was painful, but super fast and honestly nothing in comparison to childbirth. It's definitely worth the temporary discomfort. I've had it in for two years now and I rarely get periods. It has helped my mood swings, I rarely get cramps around "that time of the month" and it's done the most important job - no unplanned pregnancies! I'm very happy with it. I will be taking it out soon when we try to conceive our next child and will definitely consider getting another one in the future.
I've had the Mirena in for about a month now. The insertion was a bit painful but totally worth it. I got my period a few days after insertion, and now have had light spotting for the past month. I've heard the spotting goes away after 3-6 months so if that's the case I would highly recommend the Mirena.
I had mine for 3 years and bled for the first 6 months and then no periods. I thought it was awesome until I started having weird pregnancy-like hormonal symptoms. I had it removed and 6 months later found out that it can stop you from producing progesterone. We couldn't get pregnant and had to go through infertility treatments because the Mirena IUD messed up my progesterone production. Because I couldn't produce progesterone correctly now, I had 2 ectopic pregnancies, followed by 2 emergency surgeries. In the end we lost 3 babies before we had our miracle baby. I had to give myself progesterone shots for a while at the beginning of the pregnancy. It was a miserable and heartbreaking 2 1/2 years. All the pain, loss and heartache could have been prevented had I not used the Mirena. In my opinion, it's not worth the potential nightmare it could be.
Mirena changed my life. All of my life I have dealt with 7 days a month of a very heave cycle due to PCOS. I never realized how much of my life was consumed. Almost two years ago I made the decision to try mirena since I don't want to have anymore children. The insertion was extremely painful for me. I think I was I pain for two weeks. There was sporadic spotting for about 4 months. After that it has been heaven sent. The first two weeks I thought about taking it out but I'm glad I stuck with it. I rarely get my period now and it seems to balance out my hormones. I've had my boyfriend say he could feel it but other than that I've had no issues.
I got my mirena in after my first child as the insertation was honestly not bad. After a few weeks of having it in it caused severe menstral bleeding to the point where it was hard to travel or even go to the grocery store prior to having mirena I've never had this issue well after a few cycles of severe heavy bleeding and cramps I decided to get it out.
To begin with, It is SO painful. Id like to say I have a pretty high pain tolerance because Ive gotten my tongue pierced and that didn't hurt too much and also have a wrist tattoo which people say is one of the worse places to get a tattoo. But this was a different type of pain im traumatized, and now im reading all these horrible things makes me want to take it out but im also very scared of how much it'll hurt to get it taken out. I just got it so ill gove it a couple weeks to see how it all goes
I read all the bad reviews and freaked myself out. Yes, there are risks, but that is with every medication. Talk to your doctor about your concerns! For me, the insertion was moderately painful (no child before) but was quick! I had mild cramps for 2 days then was back to normal. The peace of mind is great! I highly recommend it.
I had Mirena for a total of 9 years. I had it 5 years at first and then had it taken out and got a new one for 4 years. After my first baby l lost about half the weight from the pregnancy. I was underweight to begin with. I got Mirena after my second child. I was back to pre-pregnancy size relatively quickly. Then I started to gain weight with a new job, that was a desk job. So that didn't help. For 9 years I gained 10 pounds a year give or take. I got it taken out in the beginning of January 2018. I have since lost 11 pounds. I was doing the same things as I was before. Excersize, watching what I ate, etc etc. Nothing was helping. As soon as I stopped excersizing for a couple days I gained the weight back that I lost from excersize. Now I excersize and watch what I eat a little and I am able to loose more weight with no more effort before Mirena.
It was extremely painful to have Mirena inserted. However, when it lightened my period after a few months, I was initially happy. Then, I became extremely bloated for about 70% of the time. And when I say bloated, I mean feeling like I am 4 months pregnant. After 8 months, I am having it taken out next week. It was the worst birth control mistake I have ever made.
I got Mirena to try and lighten or completely stop my periods, as my periods have always been very heavy and last 10+ days, but it didn't work. While I had no side effects, other than PMS before my period (which I've always had), my periods stayed the same in length and I experienced bad breakthrough bleeding each month. They did lighten but did not shorten at all. But, the Mirena did its job and I didn't get pregnant at all while taking it and my boyfriend couldn't feel the strings. I tried it for a year and after no change, went back on the pill. But I know that each body is different and even though it didn't work for me, it may work very well for others!
I started mirena back in 2014 after my doctor recommended it. At first it was great but saw an increase in weight gain a year or two after it. On my fourth year of mirena I was having awful cramps and would get my period every month like clock work. I was always bloated and hungry. I got my iud removed today, and my doctor said “the removal is the easiest”, it definitely was not the easiest. She legit ripped that iud right out of me! I've had cramps all day long and I am spotting. My doctor said that I will have a “really bad period, with heavy bleeding in a few days”, ugh
After having my son I wanted an easy birth control that i didn't have to worry taking a pill everyday. So my doctor told me about the iud. Worst decision ever. When she inserted my iud it was so painful. Then i had cramps non stop. I had my period for 4 months heavy bleeding. I deal with it since I didn't want to be on a pill that has made me gain weight before. Well I had the iud for over a year and after having my period for 4 months straight it stop. I didn't have a period any more. Starting gaining weight gain 50 pounds. Having cramps still and bad headaches. Told my doctor take it off she refused saying weight gain not a good reason. Told her okay I will try to lose the weight i gain and see if it me not eating right. I tell you I was a size M went to a 2XL and still gain 20 pounds more in a month. No only that my boyfriend would always complain how pain full it was to him when we had sex. He would feel it pinching him. Finally my doctor took it off after the 3rd time going to her. Now I'm on the patch and have a period again which has made my weight go down in a week. Think twice before putting something inside of you. I made that mistake. Don't let a doctor tell yoi it okay
Horrible experience from blurry vision, high blood pressure, weight gain, low libido, dryness, my face was puffy, headaches and discomfort. My other major issue was mine became embedded and I needed surgery. I had two different doctors try to remove it during my office visit but they could not. The pain during the insert is insane and the pain out is unacceptable. I had to go under anesthesia and received a huge medical bill. I can't recommend this product since one size does not fit all. After reading all the wonderful side effects I am concerned about my health and what other damage has been done. I also experienced swelling in my legs. Side note, before Mirena I was a healthy woman with a gym membership. One who pulls her hair back and sweats. I eat healthy with the occasional yummy junk food indulgence. Oh, I forgot to add I felt it aged me. I felt tired and had achy joints and bones. I know not everyone has the same side effects but if you have any and it's over a year please do not tolerate it , like I did. Huge mistake, I'm paying for it now out pocket and my health.
First things first do not read the negative reviews about Mirena. I was that person & I freaked out that all these bad things were going to happen to me. So far it's been great. I had spotting in the beginning & a little acne but after 2 months that seemed to all subside. I have no more spotting & I went to my check up appt. & all is good! I gained a good 6 pounds however I certainly believe it wasn't from the Mirena but rather than eating out. I was able to easily lose the weight! I recommended getting Mirena .
I've had two mirena IUDs. The first 5 years were great, no cramps, very light to no period, minimal PMS, nothing to worry about. It was wonderful. Then, i went for my second. I must note that the insertion the first time was terrible, the second time around in which the first was seemingly ripped out before the next was put in, was horrendous. Nevertheless, totally worth another half decade of not worrying. After the first year i had no libido. Like at all. I was no longer attracted to anyone and had no sexual response whatsoever. I had extreme vaginal dryness too. Unfortunately i chalked this all up to depression, which i was also experiencing. Not until i started searching online, and found 100s of women describing exactly the same thing did i realize that it was my IUD. It has been 18 months since i had it removed and it has taken over a year to start to feel like myself again. In the blogs i found online, many who had these symptoms had the IUD placed during 2014-15 which makes me wonder if they changed it in some way at that time?
It's been 7 months. Extremely heavy (think gushing) and long menstral periods is not a thing of the past. I read negative reviews on the internet and delayed adopting the Mirena. Stupid decision. Suffered unnecessarily for 3 years. So very very pleased and relieved. No more anxiety, frustration and iron deficiency!
Okay so the day I got it all my doctors and nurses LIED to me about it not hurting. It was honestly the worst pain I have ever experienced. I couldn't even make my one year appt. because I could hardly stand. Once I got to my car i almost couldn't drive myself home and as soon as I got out I puked THREE times. I ended up smoking weed which I never do but I was desperate. Through the pain I am very thankful I got it. I haven't had any problems, and I'm not pregnant which is great. I've had it about 6 months. I normally have a very heavy period that lasts at least 10 days but since I got this they are 3 days or so with very little bleeding, like literally don't even need to use a tampon. Sometimes I don't even have a period (which always makes me nervous bc I convince myself I'm pregnant every time) and I used to have unbearable cramps to the point I'd throw up and have to miss school from the pain. Now I hardly have cramps if any. I previously had the little thing in my arm which was absolutely awful, I gained 30 pounds and it made me legit crazy. But I genuinely love the Mirena. Very happy with it so far, but I'm really nervous it's going to hurt just as bad coming out!!
I started to use Minera after my first child , she almost 14yrs and Choosing Miera as my birth control method was the best decision, no pain, no side effects, no weight changes, no mood changes, no depression, no periods, so happy! After 14 yrs I decided to have an other baby (yes, I am crazy) and I had no problems to get pregnant, my pregnancy was beautiful, and of course I am back to Minera
I had very heavy periods to the point of agony and on the day I had the Mirena placed ( little spotting ) on first day, I have not had a period in 10 years. I have had the Mirena changed twice. No side effects at all.
I wanted an Ablation (burning of the uterus lining) to stop my heavy flows that usually last 8-10 days and also the added bleeding due to a fibroid. Was advised to have a Mirena placed as this will eventually stop my periods. Well, its been since Nov 2017 and there has been non stop bleeding and or brown discharge since then. Also every now and then I feel discomfort like there is something poking as the entrance of the uterus and yep its the Mirena tail. This is the worst decision made and a big waste of money. I will be having this removed as Id rather go through 8-10 days of bleeding once a month rather than constant now for 3 months, I cant see it lightening. HATE IT.
omg Inserting this was extremely painful!!! The nurse recommended taking Motrin before the procedure but I think a Vicodin would have been better. I don't have kids so maybe that was a factor but if I knew how painful it was going to be I would not have gone thru that. Now I am afraid the removal,,,, I've had it for a month now, not having many side effects except sleeping pattern changed . And I feel more tired over all. I will wait a few months a see How I feel.
I had the mirena put in 2 months ago at the same time having polyp removed so no pain very light spotting week after then very light spotting again on my next period I chose to have the mirena because of very heavy bleeding, terrible pain and emotional on my cycles for years honestly I can't believe how well this has worked for me no pain minimal bleeding and really happy .To good to be true will see I'll review again if things change.
After 6 months of having Mirena Monday at work my hand felt weak and numb. Tuesday had lower back pain. Wednesday back pain got worse followed by horrible stomach cramping and feeling like i was going to faint. Thursday stomach cramping got worse and even moved up my sides and unbearable. Dr decided an infection from IUD, once removed felt better almost instantly. Soar but SO much better. I know Mirena has worked for a lot of people but just please look out for signs and get checked immediately if experiencing any pain!
I'm 21 years old, nearly at the two week mark so can only review the immediate effects. Prior to the procedure, I didn't take any painkillers. As a result, it was one of the most painful experiences of my life- so TAKE PAINKILLERS! Although, even with painkillers I'm sure it would have been hell. It honestly felt like someone was injecting my womb from the inside with a thick, blunt needle. I bled very heavily as soon as the procedure was over, and experienced a few hours of severe cramps. I have been bleeding pretty much non stop, it has picked up in the past few days. But my cramps have pretty much stopped. You can tell it's bleeding caused by Mirena because the blood is bright red. Right now I'm hoping the bleeding will stop with the month. I feel Doctors don't stress enough the extent to which you will bleed after this is inserted.
I've never been pregnant and have never had any problems down there and getting Mirena installed was nearly painless for me, not nearly as painful as some reviews I've read online before I got it. It feels just like menstrual cramps and the insertion process is very quick. I had a pap smear and the IUD installed all in under 5 minutes. Continued cramping for the couple days following, but nothing some Ibuprofen can't take care of. Great experience so far.
My experience of the Mirena have been fantastic. My Doctor told me it could stay in about 5 years and then needs to be changed. It was due to be changed last month and I'm overdue on that, and guess what happened this month? firstly, my periods have DISAPPEARED until this month when again, it lasted 32 days and still going. Facial hair previously disappeared now seems to be growing all over the place and I've been in to be lasered twice. My mood? OMG - mood swings from anger to depression and a MASSIVE craving for sugar. Oh and the cramping. So - just to reiterate, all these symptoms of PMS and period pains have been GONE for the last five years and I have lead a completely normal life - only to return exactly on the month my mirena needs replacing. So me - i've booked back in to get a new one. Couldn't recommend more highly. Those side effects mentioned are ALL positive. Love it.
The first week was awful depression then it almost felt like it balanced me out... Til 2 months later my hair started falling out and getting shorter.. My doctor told me no chance of side effect but i insisted it be removed. 3 months late my hair is back to normal but my panic attacks are daily. I dont recommend this for anyone that has anxiety or depression
Placement was painful. Got it done in the morning and felt crumbs and abdominal pain entire day. Next day no pain and after 2 days bleeding stoped. I am getting light periods that lasts 5 days. Its's been 3 months sice I got it and I've gained 8 lbs. I feel so heavy , tired, no energy. I have no strength inmy body. I push myself to workout but it's a strugle. I think this mirena makes me fatigue and nervous. I have no energy and no patient for my little once. I am have it removed in fee days.
I got this 4 months postpartum because I started my periods again even though I was exclusively breastfeeding. I was so afraid of the insertion, but in fact, I didn't feel ANYTHING. Literally....I didn't even know the Dr. had started and she already told me she was done. I don't really remember any cramping afterwards. I've had it now for about 3 months and love it. I only had spotting for a few weeks after, but have not had any bleeding at all. My husband also cannot feel the strings. I would say it's worth a try.
Wile everything regrading use and effectiveness on birth-control as well as treating heavy menstrual bleeding are great and exactly what I needed I did decide to remove my IUD due to the hormonal side effects, I found that I was impatient, moody, I wasn't as happy or fun as I used to be. I did research and found that progesterone the main ingredient in Mirena is the same hormone that causes PMS. So being on Mirena is like having 365 PMS. I simply do not have time to be in a bad mood all the time. It should come with a PMS warning. Do your research!
I had the Mirena IUD inserted 1 year ago. I did not have my period for about 8 months and was ecstatic about this! Prior to having the IUD inserted my periods were usually about 4-5 days with no cramping. For the past 4 months, I have had a very heavy period with mild/moderate cramping. I hoping that this is only temporary. For me personally, it is worth the slight discomfort to have the reassurance of not becoming pregnant.
After trying many different forms of birth control, and not being able to regulate my period, I decided to get Mirena. It was the best decision I could've made. You hear this awful horror stories, but in reality this was the easiest procedure I have ever had. Yes, it is uncomfortable to get inserted, but the pain is no worse than some heavy period cramps.. The insertion also only takes about 10 seconds and after it is inserted, you are no longer in pain. I had some slight cramping the day after the insertion, but after that I was symptom free. I have had Mirena since November and have had no period, cramps, or any negative side effects. I recommend to anyone!!!!!
This review is currently for the insertion only. I will update once I've used it for a while. Honestly, after going down the Google rabbit hole and reading all of the terrifying horror stories about the insertion process, I worked myself up so bad that I nearly cancelled my appointment. I ultimately went through with it because I know my doctor and nurses are fantastic and I would be in good hands. I was right. I told the nurse what I did and how scared I was. She and the other nurse and my doctor were awesome. My doctor walked me through every step and told me I could stop at any time. Honestly, the process for me was no big deal. It was over in about 5 minutes and felt no worse than a moderate PMS cramp. The cervix clamping felt like an annoying pinch. It's been about 2 hours and I feel like I'm having mild to moderate PMS. I am currently working from home and plan on driving myself to my hair appointment in a couple of hours. I did take 800 mg of Ibuprofen about 45 mins before my appointment. No other pain killers or numbing agents. I am on day 6 of my period and am experiencing no more bleeding than I should be. My doctor said it should just taper off usual. I am 34 years old a
Hi, I got Mirena put in after giving birth to my first child. I got the mirena inserted the end of 2016; so I have had it in for about a year and month. I am so over it, I have been trying to debate to take it out or keep it in thinking the side effects would get better. I have my cycle every other week for the entire week straight. Before my cycle only lasted up to 3-4 days, so imagine my irritation. As of now I am 'spotting' and it's brown so it makes me very uncomfortable. I had extreme hair loss :( some times even when not bleeding or spotting, i get cramps out of no where that feel like contractions. I only got the Mirena because it was recommended by my OBGYN and I was told that I would have lite cycles or I wouldn't have any at all. I know every body is different but it's been an entire year and I have seen no progression when it comes to the bleeding "spotting" if any thing I feel like it has gotten worse. Every other week, that is crazy.. at first I was getting a cycle once a month for a week and some days straight but this has become ridiculous. I think it is time for me to get it removed.
I'm 28 years old and have never been on birth control prior. I decided to go with the Mirena IUD because of it's said to be 99% effective and I liked the idea of not having to worry about taking the pill every day. Insertion wasn't too bad. I typically get very bad menstrual cramps and it was similar to that, but for a shorter duration. I was fine after and didn't need to be in bed for the rest of the day. I'm a month in and it has been quite the rollercoaster. I'm still trying to stick it through. I had terrible cramps every few days for the first 3 weeks. My boyfriend hated seeing me like that and wanted it out immediately. I was spotting for the first week and had sex after waiting 10 days for the IUD to be effective. The next day my spotting turned into menstrual like bleeding. I've had menstrual like bleeding for over 3 weeks now and I hate it. Just when it seems like it's about to get lighter, it hasn't. I can't wait to stop wearing a pad every day. Unfortunately, I'm experiencing the bad start of it. Hopefully it'll get better.
I got my Mirena about four years ago and i don't regret the decision. Before Mirena my periods were very bad. I suffered from migraines, anemia and cramps. All of those symptoms are gone.
My husband and I didnt need the Mirena for birth control but for my heavy periods, migraines ( I was on migraine medication for menstrual headaches) and associated menstrual pain. I am SO happy my doctor recommended me to have the Mirena inserted! My periods slowly began to get lighter over the first year-migraines & pain disappeared right away! The insertion was a "bit" painful but only for a few minutes/seconds of insertion. I took Tylenol before procedure which I like to think helped. Ive had it in for 3 years, comes out in 2 more years in which my doctor said she will check my hormone levels and see if im past my menopause. If not, I will definitely get another Mirena inserted! All in all, been a great experience for me!!
I had the Mirena IUD as a penultimate treatment for adenomyosis in October 2016. The benefits were bleeding and clotting were reduced by around 60%, also period pain was significantly reduced. The side effects were, however, considerable and far outweighed any advantages. Most notable were, progressive hair loss, profuse discharge, low level daily cramping, severe bloating and flatulence. On medical advice I persevered with the iud on the hope that these side effects would dissipate, however, it would appear that the side effects in my case multiplied and became increasingly unmanageable. The additional side effects that developed throughout the final 9-12 months included increasingly blurred vision, joint pain (akin to arthritis) depression and severe anxiety. Unlike many other medications that I use long term it would appear that in my case the negative effects of the Mirena became more marked as treatment continued most notable was the considerable hair loss and anxiety. A disappointing and difficult experience to navigate, especially when coupled with an existing chronic pain condition.
I had the mirena for 2 years. It caused me to have a nonstop period for a year and a half straight. I called the gynecologist every couple months and they said it was normal and to give it a couple more months and they said my periods would be lighter and shorter as they became more regular. So I waited and waited and it didn't stop for a year and a half! And when it did stop I started having the most painful sex ever in my life! And after numerous doctor appts I finally got a CT scan that showed ovarian cysts. Once a cyst would pop there would already be another one on my other ovary. This went on for about 6 months because the doctor couldn't figure out what was going on at first then had to switch my birth control. After getting the mirena taken out the cysts finally disappeared about 2 months later.
My OBGYN prescribe Mirena because I suffered from extremely heavy periods. the insertion was not as bad as I thought it would be. I had cramps for the first couple of days. I had it put in middle of July 2017.... I HAVE NOT STOPPED BLEEDING..... 2.5 months after getting it put in, I went back to the OBGYN to get it out. My dr. Convinced me to keep it in and give it a chance and that I would stop bleeding. I gave it a chance and a month later I stopped.... it was the best feeling in the world, until literally 9 days later I started bleeding again. I have only had a 9 day break with out bleeding. It's mostly spotting when I wipe and I hate it. It's now Middle of January..... it's been six months if he'll.... not only that.... I am moody, grumpy and not myself....part of me says.... I gone thisblong maybe give it one more month.... the other part says TAKE IT OUT...... my husband hates it....it has put a damper in our sex life as I am constantly self conscious:( I want to know if anyone has had constant bleeding and it finally stopped..... I am hoping for that light at the end of the tunnel...
The insertion was extremely painful but very fast. I had minor cramping after the procedure and I felt fine the next day. I got the Mirena because of extremely heavy periods. I just had my second period on Mirena and it was much lighter. I was able to go out and I wasn't filling up a super plus tampon and super pads every fifteen minutes. I highly recommend it!!
Insertion was uncomfortable but not terrible. Bad enough to make you sweat a little but not cry worthy pain. Sex is the only down side I've had. Painful intercourse from the beginning had it a year and all throughout my experiences with the iud it never went away. Sex drive was down because all i felt after was strong cramps, enough to make me nauseous.
I've had The Mirena IUD for about 2 years, and now I'm finally reviewing it after it fell out last night. The insertion process was slightly painful but it was bareable, was covered by my insurance (BCBS). I've always had heavy periods, but while using Mirena it made it so light and most times I didn't get a period or would just spot. I've never had children before or anything. The Mirena really worked for me, but I wouldn't get it again all because of the insertion process.
I had my Mirena placed a week ago and it was the best decision I've made. I'm 21 years old and have tried pills and Depo. I wanted something that required little to no attention. The insertion was painful, but lasted about 5 seconds. It just felt like a very strong cramp. I had some bleeding directly after, but not enough to bleed through a pantyliner. The cramps were gone within an hour of placement. I've had no cramping or spotting since the procedure so I might just be one of the lucky ones! I do experience breast soreness and some acne popped up on my chin but that's all I've noticed so far regarding side effects. I definitely recommend this to anyone considering! Just take a few ibuprofen before the insertion and you'll be fiiiine :)
Before I agreed to get the Mirena inserted, I was told by my doctor that I would have lighter periods or none at all with mirena. I have been bleeding daily since I had it placed almost two months ago. My doctor never explained that there would be none stop bleeding/spotting. I had a baby 6weeks before I had the mirena inserted and now I am Still not able to have a sexual relationship with my husband due to the bleeding. I called my doctor and she said it could be up to 6MONTHS before the bleeding subsided!! I am having this removed immediately.
I just got my Mirena out after getting it 5 years ago, and I'm amazed at how great it was. The hardest part was inserting, and that was as bad as a Pap smear. For removal, my gynecologist told me to cough, and it was over. The last five years I had incredibly light, sometimes nonexistent periods, and I didn't have to worry about pregnancy until I was ready to be pregnant (read: today). I'm so excited to start trying, and so grateful to Mirena for enabling me to wait to worry about pregnancy until I was ready.
Inserted 10/2/2017 have not been able to comfortably have sex with my husband due to EVERYDAY bleeding "spotting" is what they call it but at my check up I was told that my body has to adjust, it may take 3 to 6 months. Well today I'm still bleeding and I hate it. I would not recommend this type treatment at all.
I had Mirena just for one day. On the second day my doctor removed it, as I felt pretty bad after the insertion (strong headache, dizziness, tiredness, blurred vision). Two days later I got a super heavy bleeding. I'm at the hospital right now, and after two days of treatment my bleeding is still unbelievably heavy (one pad per hour and big clots). Before insertion I did not have any problems. So, my experience with Mirena is pretty bad :(
I had the Mirena inserted December 12 2017. I had it inserted after an ablation so I did not experience pain. It's hard to say if I spotted with the Mirena straight away as I was weeping from the ablation procedure for 2 weeks. I did however (and still do) have back pain, sore painful breast pain and a constant poking feeling in my pelvic area. By the third week I began to discharge a brownish tan color constantly. Then after 4 days it changed to blood which I assume was an early period at the 21 day mark in my cycle. This light flow lasted 7 days and has now changed to brownish red spotting daily - all day. Panty liners and or tampons are still required daily. In three days it will be 5 weeks. I have not had a discharge or blood free day since December 12, which of course makes me feel gross, very unappealing and is beginning to make me sad. Also, the few times I've attempted sexual relations, which is tough when you're discharging, my partner bumped into this contraption which hurt him and me. So sex needs to be scaled back. I have my follow up this week (35 day mark). I will ask to have it removed. I'm 47, I was trying to stave off the irregular cycles I had developed from being
I'll try to be as brief and informative as possible. Because I'm reading reviews and I need more details. I'm 5'9 240lb mother of 1 (11 yrs old) Insertion 1 was done 10/2017, mild discomfort with lots of cramping. Also, I was on my period during insertion. 6 weeks later at my check up it was found that my Mirena expelled. So I was told to come back when my next cycle came on. Insertion 2: Horrible, first Mirena would not stay in (I was on my cycle) so my GYN inserted another Mirena with more success. Lots of cramping and poking around but not worse than menstrual cramps. So here I am 4 days away from my 6 week check. I am currently on my cycle again. I haven't had any issues with spotting in between either. Guess I'm one of the lucky ones.
**Insertion Review Only** I just had my Mirena inserted today. It was similar to a Pap smear so if that's extremely uncomfortable for you then it's along the same lines. I thought it was so easy and so quick. As it's inserted it feels just like a menstrual cramp, after wards just felt like slight menstrual cramps rarely. I didn't have to do anything later so I thought it just best to chill however if I had to do something later I wouldn't have been bothered, just the same as if I were getting a cramp on my period. There was some light spotting immediately after and a little later in the evening but not enough to soak through a panty liner. It's really not painful as all the reviews I've seen! But I suppose everybody is different, I didn't and still haven't felt the need to take any pain medicine prior to or after the insertion. Hope my review helps!
I started on the birth control pill initially, but it really messed with my digestive system and i had frequent diarrhea. My doc suggest i switch to a non-oral contraceptive, so I tried the depo shot for a while as well. The depo shot caused a lot of acne for me, so I went off all contraceptives for a while. Five months ago, I tried Mirena. Insertion was painful and i had pretty nasty cramps for a few hours after. I also spotted for about 3 months after insertion. However, the spotting stopped, I have no periods, my skin is clear as could be, and my digestive system is all back to normal. Super nice to not have to worry about birth control for the next 5 years!!!!
I would not recommend Mirena to anyone who is breastfeeding. In less than a week I went from making more than enough milk to none at all. It was very uncomfortable and painful. I ended up going to the hospital to have it removed 7 days after it was put in and they told me that some of the pain was due to it moving farther into the uterus than it should be. Turns out that when you breasfeed its more likely to trigger contractions which in my case sucked it farther in. Maybe it would work better for someone not currently breastfeeding but I definitely wouldn't recommend it.
I had a 5 years Mirena places in me, I had it for 8 months and I found out in August 2017 that I was 2 months pregnant. I was extremely disappointed because I spend so much time reading up on different forms of birth control and after my doctor recommended it I felt like it would be the right one. I am now 7 months pregnant and will be having a boy.
After talking with several friends who have Mirena and reading reviews, people raved about how great it works for them. I much prefer not using hormonal birth control, I don't believe filling the body and water system with artificial hormones is healthy, but the copper IUD failed twice and I ended up pregnant after the first one (quite emotionally distressing and disappointing). I got the Mirena near the beginning of January 2017. The procedure was more painful than expected, but bearable. The first 7 months of having the Mirena were hellish! I have gained at least 20 pounds, mostly in my breasts which were already large, and until about 2 months ago they were very sensitive almost everyday. My mood and energy is often low. In the first few months I was really depressed; granted I had recently moved and had other stressful changes so was already anxious and somewhat moody, but I struggled to be a productive person in almost any way. I had sudden onset cramps, crippling at times. I don't have a period anymore which is fine, but my normal period was quite normal before. I did spot on and off for about 7 months. I also had a strong unpleasant odor for months which is not great
I tried many birth control options but none of them worked for me. Anything with hormones seemed to mess me up. I decided to go with a non hormonal option. Sadly, the only choices are condoms and ParaGrad, the non-hormonal IUD. After reading many reviews and speaking tou doctor, I decided that getting a Mirena would be better. Even though my body can't handle hormonal bc, so far I've been okay with the Mirena. I got it 5 days ago and I'm waiting to see whether it will make me depressed or not. The process of inserting it was very painful, but not as bad as expected. It lasted about 5 minutes. I took Advil doe the next two days because I had cramps. I will write another review in several months. So far the best birth control I've tried!
Ladies! Ladies! Ladies! The bad reviews had me scared out my mind! I went in this morning to get the Mirena. Although I took two Norco pills the night before and this morning & have a very high tolerance for pain. Insertion was PAINLESS! Pressure & maybe 2 cramps, nothing different of a paps smear which he also did. Mind you I just had Lipo a week ago! Took all of 5 mins and then it was over! Was able to lift and stand up! I'm currently at work now. Haven't had any cramps thus far! Ladies! Experience it yourself. DO NOT let these reviews drive you crazy! Still very early, so I'll make another review soon!
I have had the Mirena for 2.5 years. It hurt when the put it in. There is bleeding after. The bleeding and spotting lasted for a couple months. Periods have gotten very light. Lasting 3-5 days and not needing much more than a thin panty liner. No headaches from hormones, no heavy bleed outs. I am very happy with the Mirena
I got my Mirena placed about 40 days ago. I am 19, and I had been on the birth control pill since I was 16 because my periods are awful - very, very heavy and terrible cramps to the point that I couldn't stand up for more than a minute. I have been struggling with whether I wanted an IUD for a while now because the reviews are so mixed, and lets be honest, no one likes painful things. But, finally I decided to try it, I have never been pregnant but wanted the most hormones and the longest lasting, so I went with Mirena. I got it inserted at Planned Parenthood because my insurance was not taken at my college health center for this, and while on my period, and I took three Advil a few hours beforehand. The whole insertion process was only a few minutes, most of which was cleaning, numbing, and measuring the cervix, which was very odd feeling, but only a little painful. The actual part where she inserted it was only like 15 seconds, which was very painful, not the worst I've ever felt, but a weird feeling being up in the cervix like that. Honestly, 15 seconds of pain is worth SIX YEARS of never worrying or doing anything. I had mild cramping a bit for the rest of the day but i
I had heard about IUDs from friends who had gotten them and loved them. I have been on the pill most of my life besides a brief attempt at the Nuva Ring. I had a friend in college get pregnant with the IUD and had to have an ectopic pregnancy just a week before we graduated. She had to have one of her filopian tubes removed and her baby aborted during finals week of our senior year of college. This is something the doctors fail to share with you as a “side effect”. Even though this tragedy happened, I was still screwing up my pill and having consistent sex with a new boyfriend. Sometimes we wanted to share a moment together and not have him pull out, this didn't feel like something I could risk doing on the pill but IUDs are supposed to be much more protective. I was also experiencing a lot of mood swings from I think not taking the pill properly (on top of a whole other array of life things though as well). My PMS and flow was also very heavy so I felt like half of every month was committed to just getting through my period. I decided it was probably time to test out the IUD impulsively one day. I made the appointment and went in without doing much research on my options.
I had a Mirena inserted in June by my Gyno in hospital so it was painless. He was honest and gave no guarantees that it would help my heavy bleeding and cramps. The first month bleeding was a lot lighter, although it did last for the whole month. Since then bleeding got progressively heavier, blood clots bigger, more frequent, more spotting and irregular with increasing cramping. After 3 months needed an iron infusion and the heavy unpredictable bleeding made me anxious going out as i didn't know when i was going to flood. Chronic fatigue led to weight gain because as soon as i finished work, was too tired to to anything. Other side effects included anxiety, depression and foggy brain which had a large impact on my job. I kept doubting my ability as i made stupid mistakes and was unable to comprehend questions even though i have been in my job for over 4 years . My GP wanted me to wait out the 6 months, however last month after another bad episode I rang my Gyno who saw me straight away. Last week i had a Hysterectomy and couldn't feel better.
I just had my Mirena removed after 5 years. I decided to remove it a couple of months earlier than the exact 5 years bc I was beginning to wonder if my 30ish pound weight gain and inability to lose said weight was a side effect. I'm a fairly active person and haven't had issues with losing weight if a few pounds popped up here and there, but it'll been a struggle for the past few years. I just chalked it up to getting older but after reading reviews I'm starving to think it was the Mirena. I've been off it for a week and I'm already noticing a loss of bloat (looking bloated) even with the light spotting expected after removal. I've also had a weird underarm smell (not BO) that has been a struggle for the past few years and I thought it was my diet or vitamin deficiency; but 1 week without Mirena and it's subsided. If you get this, be aware if changes in your body. Mine didn't happen overnight but was more a gradual progression of symptoms where I wouldn't think, “this must be the Mirena”. You forget it's there and assume it has to be something you've introduced to your body recently. Look at older blogs and reviews from people who have been on it for over a couple of years. There a
Hello! I have just had my Mirena inserted and I just wanted to let you know what the process was like. My doctor gave me temazepam to have the night before and the morning of the procedure. It helps you and your muscles to relax. The actual procedure was quite quick and not very painful, just a bit uncomfortable. I've never been pregnant, so my uterus was not happy being prodded. But it felt more like a menstrual cramp than anything really painful. My doctor also put local anasthetic into my uterus/cervix area to help it to relax. She does this with all her patients, but says some doctors don't do this. All in all, I would say that if the idea of insertion is holding you back, it's really not too bad. Try to relax, as tensing up can make it harder to insert. Also, you can ask your doctor to have a look at your cervix at your consultation appointment to ensure that you won't have too much trouble with insertion. Hope this helps! Will let you know how I go with side effects etc in future. :)
I had the Mirena insert around 2years ago (2015).When I got it insert I didn't have no pain at all. Easy! I would get my regular period every month which I don't mind. After maybe 6months of having it I would have light bleeding like pinkish color blood after sex and my bf would always ask me are u on ur period? I wasn't... I would always brushed it off ok so now it's been 1 1/2 that I have it.I started getting pain in my elbow my arm would get numb at night so 5 months later that's when everything started. I started to have uti and yeast infection doctors would give me antibiotics after antibiotics for 3 months u name it i got tested for everything all negative.Until finally I decided to take out my iud.I was like this has to be this whats affecting me.So when I came to take it out doctor couldn't take it out so I had to get ultrasound done come to find out the Mirena is not where is supposed to be so now I'm schedule for a procedure to take out ouch! I had all kind of side affect my hair fell out like crazy, acne, depression, anxiety, sluggish I hated it I wouldn't go back. It didn't work for me.
I stared using Mirena 8 months ago after trying every other contraceptive. I've got 2 kids and my boyfriend and I were not ready to have another. The insertion was a little uncomfortable but not painful, yes my doctor gave me some muscle relaxers 30 min prior and I took a mild pain killer after but the experience was basically painless. I did experience some cramping that day but nothing else till my next period, honestly the first 3-4 months aren't easy... I had regular spotting and mild flows every now and then, some cramping too, but nothing unbearable. After that initial 3-4 months ( which I was warned about) I can without a doubt say that it is the best contraceptive I've ever used. Now I only spot for two days whereas before I had a heavy flow which lasted 6-8 days even after having my kids. I have no cramps and no other side effects. Yes our bodies respond differently to literally everything but most people I know are using it and are really happy with it. Do your own research and decide for yourself.
I chose to get an iud after talking with my doctor for over a year. I was super against it because I heard nothing but bad reviews and was scared. I have heavy period with heavy cramping every month for the full duration of my period which was 3-5 days tops.My doctor recommended me Mirena, I finally agreed, she told me to take some otc pain pills 30 min before since it's painful. I swear the insertion was as bad a having contractions I have two kids and my god it felt the same for at least 10 min. I stayed home that day to rest since I had cramps really bad. I had it inserted in July and since then I swear I felt the thing moving around for the first two weeks I haven't felt any strings and my period has been super heavy still and lasts anywhere between 5-9 days now with heavy bleeding three of the days and cramps I have a lot of acne and mood swings bad I am seriously considering removing it, the only thing that holds me back is the pain I experienced.
I just had the mirena IUD inserted last night. After reading so many reviews I was nervous about the pain. However, it was a piece of cake for me. I do not have a high threshold for pain either. It was literally a few minutes. One uncomfortable twinge and the rest of the procedure was fast and painless. It's only been a day but I had NO cramping or pain afterwards. I did take three aleve before the procedure and tried very hard to relax during the insertion which is always hard in that position. I was prescribed this because I am in perimenopause and have heavy heavy bleeding that lasts about a month each cycle resulting in low hemoglobin / iron infusions and the occasional blood transfusion. Hoping this stops or lightens my cycle which is the goal. Good luck to everybody. Don't read all of the reviews of pain associated with the insertion. Everyone is different and if anything, it will get you tense and nervous for your appointment.
I had the Jaydess Copper IUD (3 year) inserted 6 weeks ago. The insertion didn't hurt as bad as I thought it would just cramping and bleeding for a week after. My boyfriend said he felt the wire strings twice but that it didn't seem to be a huge problem for him. When I got my period this month, I bled alot more then usual. My nipples have been tender the past two weeks which I hope subsides but over all I like it and would recommend!
I have only had the Mirena for five days but it has been wonderful. The insertion does hurt but is over pretty quickly. I took pain relievers beforehand and tried to remind myself to take deep breaths. Sitting up afterwords was worse for me. I felt like I was going to pass out and had to lay down for about 10 minutes. I planned for my boyfriend to drive me home after reading other reviews. I took it easy the rest of the day with a heating pad. I had cramps for a few hours and spotted during those hours. Since then I have stopped bleeding which feels like a miracle. I used Nexplanon for 3 years and a half years. The last six months on Nexplanon I bled non-stop (light but non-stop.) Without birth control my periods are really long and super heavy to the point that I become anemic. I cannot use anything with estrogen after having stroke symptoms (and migraines) on the pill. My doctor talked about Mirena being my last option. I was discouraged before getting the Mirena but this option has worked out well for me so far.
I have had my Mirena Iud for just under a week now. I want to say right off the bat, that for me at least getting the iud placed was easly the second most painful experience of my life. You do need a pain killer before and after, which my doctor did not warn me about. I have been experiencing mild cramping occasionally since and very light spotting after sex (I had sex 3 days after having it inserted and the iud caused no problems there). I have had zero other side effects so far. I got the iud because I can't remember the pill and have way too many side effects on the patch and do not handle shots well. I plan to keep mine and so far all seems well and I like it as far as birth control goes. I just wanted to point out that if you are considering this option understand and take into account it could hurt, and it could hurt badly. Nobody warned me of this. I plan to leave a new reveview in a few months when I have a better idea of how it effects me.
I have had the mirena IUD inserted about 2 wks ago while on my period (upon reguest of the nurses/doctors) and yeah it was uncomfortable, plus it took the nurse (who was putting it in me) twice the amount of time to get it in my uterus becuase my cervix was tilted and closed very tight, so she used these long tools/forceps called cervix dialaters to go in a force my cervix open enough to get the IUD inside of my uterus .. it was very c rampy, but tolerable, labor is deffinetly worse... anyways, since having it inside of me I have been experiencing what looks like pieces of my uterus, cervix, something is coming out of me and I'm very unsure as to what it is, I found this site because I was searching reviews to see if anyone else experienced this same issue and so far I haven't found anything. So if there's anyone out there who is reading this review and has experienced what looks like pieces or something (pink colored) please let me know. I took a picture of it to show them when I go in for my check up in 2 weeks but it's scary so I'm in search of an answer. Thanks
I had Mirena inserted in January and the procedure went quite smoothly despite the slight pinch. I had severe cramping during the first 3 days, which was expected. I continued to have irregular bleeding for about 4 months, but have read that that too is quite normal. Now I no longer bleed, nor do I have any cramping, which is wonderful. The only side effect I seem to have is that my breasts have been getting bigger and that they become incredibly sensitive at least 1x/month. They rarely used to get hard and painful like this....and I am not yet sure if I like it. I really hope they return to normal. Other than that, I am quite content with the liberty Mirena has to offer.
After removing the mirena coil my supply is back UP! It's soooo good to hear and see my baby drinking lots of my breastmilk till he is full. On the coil this wasn't happening and only one breast was producing small amount of milk not even up to 3 ozs. Thank God i took it out.
I had the mirena coil fitted on 17th November 2017. Prior to having it I had been breastfeeding my 9 week old baby. Immediately after having it I noticed a significant change in the texture of my boobs and my milk supply wasn't coming in as often throughout the day. Apart from that I noticed severe migraines, unhappiness and constant light bleeding which they said could last for up to 6 months. I decided to have the mirena coil removed today because the migraines were just too severe and I want my baby to enjoy full breastfeeds and supply for at least the next 6 months. I think for anyone who is prone to migraines, hormone contraception is Not the way to go. The copper coil is the only one that has No hormone. I will research more and may go for that. All the best to anyone who is planning to get contraception. Pls research research research so you avoid problems. God bless you
i got the Mirena in 2203, after the Copper T felt off. The first year I was bleeding the all time, after that I lost my period with minimal spotting. Side effeffect 40 pound gain weigh, horrible acne, excruciating pain and mood swing to the point that I end up in a doctor that told me to remove stat and I did it today after 4 years.
I have had Mirena for over a year and I have hated the side effects. I started out with Skyla (never had side effects like), but with Mirena I have had terrible acne and mood swings. Every month for about a week, I become extremely irritable and I end up with deep, painful pimples. The irritability is the worst part and I've decided to have it taken out next week. I plan on getting Skyla again.
I have been on pretty much every birth control pill there is and I always had bad side effects with them. I had to start taking mirena instead because I'm at an increased risk of having a blood clot. I have had the least amount of side effects with it out of every BC I've been on. Insertion was painful but so quick that it's completely tolerable considering I'm a pretty squeamish person; I went to work right after and was fine with the Advil they recommended. I've never had a child or been pregnant and the pain for me was still not bad. Also, the cramps afterwards are nothing compared to the ones I used to have without BC. The only annoying thing is the constant spotting for me but this will more than likely go away completely so I feel like it's not a big deal compared to the side effects I had on the pill. I actually ended up losing weight on mirena because I think my previous pill was making me gain weight. And my emotions are finally stable since it doesn't mess much with your head, yay! It also does nothing for acne so not a good choice if you're looking for help with that. For birth control and completely unmanageable periods though it's amazing and I would recommend to every
I had my mirena in for three months. From the get go it was not good. Yes the doctors gave me the informational pamphlet and yes they listed the possible side effects, but even after reading many many reviews of mirena that stated how bad the thing messed with some people's hormones I thought... no not me. I should be fine, plus the doctor assured me I would probably be period free and most women go symptom free. Birth control that i've used in the past never affected me much, but mirena was no bueno for me. Weight gain, terrible sluggishness, acne like a mother and continuous bleeding. I seriously felt depressed absolutely zero motivation to work out or do active things like I normally do. I got it removed right away.
I am a 42 year old woman, 5'8" and weigh about 240 lbs. I have always been a big woman with big bones. I am also disabled, as things go and do not have intercourse as much due to my back pain. I got Mirena mostly because I have always had horrible cramps every month. I was on the pill (which I loved) but was forced to go off (couldn't quit smoking at 40). I have never had children. My doc recommended Mirena knowing all of this information. It was the worst decision of my life!!! Again, I am a sick person, who suffers from chronic pain. I KNOW PAIN. This was above and beyond horrible during the insertion process and after. I knew without having a baby that it would be painful but, this was just insane! I had it put in last Monday, the 13th and today I had her remove it! For a week straight I had the most intense cramps and I swear I could feel it jabbing me, from inside. If you have not had children, do not even try it... especially if you are not a "young person". My 42 year old uterus basically said WTH!!! I could not wait to see if it would stop by the 3rd week like the nurse told me. I am feeling much better now.
I got mine inserted over a month ago. It was Hell to get it inserted. I had an abortion a couple of years ago without anesthesia and I had the IUD inserted without anesthesia. I went into shock both times from the cervical manipulation and pain. I can tell you right now, unless you can opt for anesthesia, do NOT get this done. I lived on painkillers for two weeks and it was still very uncomfortable after that. Even know, I experience short bursts of pain and discomfort. I'm debating getting it removed. But I'm also scared to get it removed. I don't want to feel that kind of pain again. The pain was identical to the abortion. I feel nauseous thinking about it.
I had the Mirena inserted two months ago. The insertion was very painful and at the time I swore that I would never get it done again but looking back I think it was worth the pain. For about half an hour after the insertion I had extremely painful cramps which I have never experienced before in my life but they disappeared after around two hours. I had the insertion done in the afternoon and stayed home that night to rest and I was fine the next day. Since I was on the pill at the time of the insertion my gynaecologist told me to keep taking it until I finished the packet which was for about a week after the insertion. That first week was pretty horrible for my mood since I was doubling up on hormones. I felt almost depressed and one or two of the nights I spent at home crying. I then had my period for around 10 days when I usually only had it for 4 days when I was on the pill. At this point I was essentially freaking out and really worried that I had made a mistake getting the IUD inserted. Fortunately, my period stopped and since then I haven't had my period and had spotting maybe once but it was hardly anything! Have to say it is pretty awesome not getting your period at all! M
My mirena came out today in a clot of blood. Other than that my overall experience wasnt bad stopped my cycles and everything. I cant wait to find out why it came out
I've had irregular periods due to PCOS and have a nice lump on my abdomen from some endometrial tissue that went awry during my c-section. The doctor recommended Mirena and I was SUPER hesitant for a year. Finally upon hearing that my risk for uterine cancer was elevated, I decided to give it a try. Insertion was not fun, but it was nothing to be scared of at all. I had about 3 minutes of period-like cramps and no pain per se. It was just a weird feeling that something was going on and it wasn't pleasant, but definitely not painful. (Labor pains in my back were MUCH worse as was the epidural). That was 3 days ago. Since I've had some light intermittent spotting to the point where I just barely need a liner. I was a bit nervous to have sex but there was absolutely nothing different about it. Hubby didn't feel the strings at all. In hind-sight, I should have done this 5 years ago after the birth of my kiddo. It works for me so far!
I had a history of PCOD(15+ years), hypothyroidism(10+ years). Was on homeo treatment for 3 years during which there was some sort of pattern but extremely painful periods. When I decided to take a break from homeo, problems came back with a vengence. I had non-stop spotting and bleeding, culminating in extremely heavy bleeding when I met the doctor who first put me on pills to stop bleeding and then did the procedure to insert mirena after 20+ days. Procedure itself was painful and I had cramps and spotting/bleeding for a month again culminating in a week long period(not very heavy). After that till this date no bleeding, though occasional cramps. It has been 6 months. It has changed my life, freed me from extreme pain and non-stop spotting/bleeding. Hopefully there will be no adverse effects.
I have had this inserted in mid-july. I was told it might take 3 months for my periodo period to stop but they have gotten way worse. It's now November and I still have bad cramps and heavy bleeding. I'm giving it one more month and if no change then I will remove it.
I've had the mirena not a year yet it was painful but it took my period away haven't had it had to get the mirena for my seizures bc hormones was on depo shot four years and to long but now having massive cramps and pain was told from doctor infection and gushing is normal during having a mirena I think it's okay but with my medical condition a Hysterectomy in so much pain with it I'm now not liking it
I've had the mireana for 2 years but just had it removed today . Overall I actually really liked it, best birth control method I've tried. Insertion was not bad, I've read all the reviews stating how terrible the inserting was lol I mean everyone's pain level is different but come on people it felt like a bad cramp in 10 -15 second increments for what 2 -3 mins top that is bearable! We are woman and have experienced worse pain way worse with contractions. Overall I had weight gain about 20 pounds but it went to my thighs and butt so no complaints. No period another plus. The sole reason for me removing is I noticed right after insertion my cervix felt more loose during sex and never went back to how it felt during intercourse prior so for me that is a big negative ! My partner even noticed a difference on how it felt down there immediately after so fingers crossed for my old self back
Non stop bleeding and spotting the first month and a half. Regular period cycle the second month. No more periods after that. When I was bleeding the first month and wanted to have non-bloody sex, I just took OTC Ibuprofen and it halted the red blood for a bit. Periods gone after 3 months. My Mirena also turned upside down and took the strings with it into my uterus. ;). Doc saw on X-ray and had no issue with that. He said to leave it and removal in five years would still be easy.
I have had Mirena for three years, and overall I have had a mixed experience. My obgyn persuaded me into it after I had a serious ectopic pregnancy. Insertion was painful, but I have never had children and I had another procedure earlier that day regarding my cervix, so I think that exacerbated it. Cramping later that day was pretty bad, but it went away after that. The pros are that it's really effective, and I have basically no periods now. I used to have heavy flow and horrible, horrible cramps every 26 day cycle. Now I rarely notice my cycle, occasionally get cramps but nothing like it was. The cons are that my libido has become basically non existent. Sometimes discomfort during sex. Also sometimes when I do strenuous exercise, I get cramps (I think from it rubbing while I move? ). I love that I get no periods, but due to the lack of sex drive I don't think I will be replacing it.
IHATE IT, I HATE IT, I HATE IT. within two days I was on my period. I've been on my cycle for 2 months already. I haven't stopped bleeding yet. I have never CRAMPED so horribly in my entire life to the point I had to stop myself from crying at work . it hurts so much. This is the worst thing ever I'm going to take mine out.
I've had my Mirena for 5 days now. The day I had it put in I took motrin about an hour before, yet it was still fairly uncomfortable. But nothing so bad I couldn't take it. I had some mild bleeding and cramps immediately following, but once again my menstrual cramps every month are always extremely painful, so to me it was more of just an annoyance. For the last few days I've had a discharge with still some light spotting, but nothing worse than I have to use just a panty liner for. Today even I still have some very mild cramping, but if I'm not thinking about them I don't notice it too much. Still super light spotting with discharge, but I have a foreign object in my body and it does take a while to get back to normal so it's to be expected. Hopefully months down the road I'll still be happy with it, but overall so far so good. I don't feel it at all, I know some people have said they can but I think my doctor cut it so close to my cervix I won't have to worry about it. I have a follow up in a couple of weeks so we'll see. I have not yet had intercourse with it in yet, so not sure if my partner will feel it or not.
After taking Acetimeniaphen one hour prior to my appointment as directed by my doctor, I experienced no pain having the device installed. I did, however, have pretty painful cramping for four hours about after 30 minutes after Mirena was inserted on September 27th. (2 weeks after my last period had ended). I had light spotting for 2 days, then my period came a week later as scheduled on October 5th. I had no severe cramping/migraines as I typically do and my flow went from very heavy (before Mirena) to mild/light (after Mirena). Although my period ended after the typical 7 days, I continued to have light spotting/discharge for 21 days until my period started again on October 31st. I'm now at 28 days of having some sort of blood/discharge with no relief in sight. My sex life is non-existent, the hormones are also affecting my mood (not in a good way) and I've developed acne at 42 on my usually pristine skin. A 3-6 month adjustment window filled with acne, mood swings, no sex and irregular bleeding is not looking so appealing. I'm now considering removal.
I had the Mirena put in about 3 months ago. Insertion was painful, but I thought worth it for the long term. However, then I started to get acne all over my face in places I've never had it before, my cheeks, hairline, jawline, ugh. I went to a dermatologist to treat it and now use acne medication that makes my skin feel like sandpaper and barely keeps the problem at bay. I have also bleed almost every single day for the past 3 months. I'm very unhappy with my choice and m considering getting it removed early and going back to the pill.
I am 38 years old and have 3 children. I just had my 3rd Mirena inserted two days ago. The first one in November of 2007 with Motrin only, however I was about 11 months postpartum. Insertion was quick, very minimal pain. Went on 2012 to get a new one, not expecting too much pain. Wow! Removal was very painful, but insertion not horrible. Again, Motrin only and at the point I haven't had a period since January 2008. Now 10 years later, another swap! I was so nervous because of the pain last time. This time I was prescribed 200mcg of Cytotec to take orally the night before to soften the cervix. Very mild cramping. The day of I took 600mg of ibuprofen and my doctor used a local numbing gel on the outside of my cervix. Incredible! It was night and day. I didn't even feel her take out the old one! Mild cramping while measuring the depth of my cervix and then again during insertion. But way more bearable than last time! I've read that several physicians say the cytotec and local anesthetic don't help, but I beg to differ. I was night and day for me. I would highly recommend it! No periods still since January 2008. I have had very light spotting the last two days. My cramping
I am 26 years old. I have endometriosis, but since I've been on birth control for so long, it hasn't been much of an issue. I chose to go with Mirena as my form of birth control. I was really terrible at taking the pill at the same time every day. Before Mirena, I was on Lo Loestrin Fe. I was getting very irregular periods, spotting. It was really annoying. When I got Mirena, the insertion was very uncomfortable. I had some cramping but I went to work that day after the procedure. I'm not sure exactly why, but everything is better. I noticed feeling more alert, energetic, and weight loss became easier. I am so happy with this form of birth control.
I just got mine put in today! I had my fourth child two months ago so definitely needed this. The procedure wasn't painful for me. He did give me an anaesthetic. All I felt was a slight pinch and instant cramping. Cramps weren't as bad as I thought they would be. Didn't last long either. I also started bleeding. Hopefully it doesn't last long. So far so good though! Will review again once I have it longer.
I previously had Mirena for three years. The insertion at that point was mildly painful. I had some cramping afterwards but not too bad. I never had much of a period after that. Then eventually it went away completely. However, I just got Mirena inserted again today and the pain was pretty awful. I am having some pretty bad cramps now. It seems like I can feel the strings poking inside me. I hope all goes well and I don't have to get it removed. This time getting it was way worse than my first time..
It was the biggest mistake ever. I got it put in today. Horrific pain. I gave birth with no drugs, and this sucked worse. I actually need a hysterectomy, but Kaiser has a love affair with Mirena, so they force you to get one before surgery. I'm taking it to treat PCOS and anemia. I'm in increasingly worse pain that is keeping me awake. I would RUN from this. I absolutely am getting this out immediately. Yay for those of you that like it, but shame on Kaiser for forcing this on women. I would tell you not to get it if you have any kind of uterine issue. They doctor is lying if they tell you it helps.
Unfortunately the Mirena was not for me. Although it was awesome my period went away completely, the side effects were too much and I had it removed and replaced with the Paraguard copper IUD after only four months. The Mirena caused rapid, unexplainable weight gain, my acne came back after years of no acne, sex drive diminished to nothing, and I felt depressed and sluggish. It's only been a week with the new copper IUD but I already feel like the non-hormonal option was better for me. I have multiple friends who have had an awesome experience with Mirena, so I wouldn't count it out completely. It just caused lots of side effects for me, that I never experienced while on the pill for 10+ years. It was also very painful to put in, and was much more painful than the Paraguard.
I am on my 3rd IUD. I first got the Meraina in 2007. Every 5 years I have had it replaced. This is my 3rd one. Prior to going and having it replaced I take mydole. I get minimum cramping during the replacement. I love the IUD. I bleed for the first 24 hours after not much then I never bleed again. I have not had a true period in 10 years. I have not had any spotting or anything. I would recommend that you ask your gyn after your follow up to cut the strings. I have mine cut just even with my cervix. They were bothering my husband. Love it. 1 every 6 years now I can suffer some mild pain.
My Dr. suggested the Mirena for my PCOS, the birth control I had been taking for 4 years started working against me and I tried 5 other kinds of BC, but still, they all failed. I had my Mirena IUD placed yesterday, so my review will be soley based on the procedure. I was told that it was best to have the Mirena inserted during my period because the uterus is softer so I had mine inserted on day 2 of my period. The procedure took around 5 minutes and I do have a high pain tolerance and I would say it was slightly painful, but nothing that I wasn't able to handle. I did have instant cramping the second the tools touched my uterus. After the procedure, my doctor gave me another 300mg of Ibuprofen and I was fine, only slight cramping. I asked how long I had to wait until I could work out, could I use a tampon? She said absolutely NO restrictions, I can work out right away and even have sex since it's effective immedately and yes to a tampon. I drove myself to work after, was able to work the entire day, went grocery shopping afterwards, lifted 2 cases of water into my cart and into my car, no problems. Woke up the next day feeling great, no cramping, no pain, no nothing so far.
I've had my mirena for 8 months now and I love it. It's not perfect but the main reason I wanted it was to prevent pregnancy and it has saved me a lot of anxiety. The insertion was very painful for me, I could have taken more Advil prior. I usually have bad cramps so the insertion was a lot of cramping which lasted a couple days. But it's been so long it's just a memory now rather than a nightmare. No acne, no weight gain, no mood changes. I do get PMS a little bit more now, moody for a week and my breasts get pretty tender/swollen. But it is bearable. I still get my period for 5-8 days every month with moderate cramping. I've always had cramps but they are way more tolerable now. Not sure if this happens for many others, but I did have cramping after sex in the first couple of months but now that only seems to happen if I have sex while on my period. Would recommend to anyone who has access to this birth control. It's great knowing how protected you are (for 5 years!) and there is no daily effort to ensure how effective it is. Love not taking a pill everyday
I got my mirena IUD inserted about about four and a half months ago. I took two extra strength Tylenols an hour before insertion and it wasn't any worse than my usual cramping. I got it to get a lighter period and for contraception, my period is not coming once a month but it's more like the blood comes out as I make it, it's been a small trickle for about three weeks and it started stronger but it's much less now, but constant. My doctor said it could be up to six month for my body to adjust but overall it was a good decision. Convenient birth control, less period blood, no cramping or bloating, no obvious mood changes. Would recommend.
I have had the Mirena for 9 months. The insertion was pretty darn painful but if you can get through a few seconds of intense pain and some cramping afterwards then it's worth it. I had a light period for about 40 days after that, which was annoying and I thought about getting it taken out, but now I maybe get a light period every 3 months, if even. I haven't gained any weight from it. For me, it has been worth it to have the extra protection.
I have had my Mirena in for about a year now, I am a 23 and have one 2 year old. In the beginning, all symptoms were normal (bleeding, cramping) therefore nothing really bothered me. After 2-3 months I started getting abdominal pain and severe anxiety. I am always bloated and defiantly feel myself gaining weight. My vision is 10x worse and I am always so tired. I do like this method of BC due to the pill not working for me, and it is easy. BUT I do not like these side effects. Very very tempted on getting it out and looking into a different method of BC.
1 week ago today I had surgerybtonremive polyps in my uterus and on my cervix.....my gym I recommended I get the IUD while under to help control my extremely heavy periods. I was very hesitant about getting it, but did anyways. My follow up appt in not until next Monday and I asked to be seen sooner because I want it out!!!! I have has very mild cramping so that's not the problem it's the mood swings, crying, migraine, bloating, shaking, fatigue and most of all anxiety every single day!!!! I already have anxiety and ow it's worse! Today I had a full blown panic attack and that's when I said I am done! No I will not give it a chance! I hope the surgery waa enough to help me with my periods, because the IUD and I just don't get along! Really wish it would have worked out! My friends who have it love it!!!
Love it. I get severe chronic migraines, and I have low estrogen (started getting night sweats during my period) so an IUD was really my only option. It was definitely really uncomfortable to have put in, but the entire process took less than 5 minutes. I had pretty severe cramping during and after the insertion, and light spotting for about 2 weeks after. I've had it for about 6 months now, I don't get a period anymore, I get significantly fewer migraines (which is a blessing), and I don't get night sweats anymore. I gained maybe 8 pounds, but I'm a little person so weight fluctuations are more noticeable on me (5"3 and 105lbs). I forget I have it most of the time, so that's fantastic. I would highly recommend it. My recommendation for having it put in though: take the day off work, take some ibuprofen before, and get someone to pick you up. Just makes things a little nicer. Best choice I've made in a long time !
Great cause I had no periods for a year that I used it but it wasn't right for my uterus. I ended up getting the smaller IUD, but it was great other than being a bit big.
Disclaimer: different birth controls work for different people. Mirena is not for everyone, but here is my testimony. I am a 5'10" 140lb 22 year old woman and Mirena was honestly, the best thing I ever did for my feminine health. I got it put in just before I went to college. I will not lie, The insertion was brutal. I blased musif my headphones to kee my mind busy and squeezed a stress ball. After the insertion I could barely walk for the rest of the day. If you don't have a high pain tollerenace like me, this is probably not the IUD for you. The next two days were rough. It's like the worst period cramps of your life. I got it put in on a Friday so I could camp out on the couch the next two days, which I highly reccomend. After that, I was taking Advil every day for about two weeks for moderate cramping. The reason you cramp so badly after is because your body is literally like "what is this thing in here" and is kind of freaking out. but, once your body realizes it's in there for good, and learns how to function with it, the pain ceases. I did experience a little weight gain. About 7-10 pounds. But it all went to my butt and thighs so I wasn't too mad about that. I also defini
I'm 4 days past fitting and despite a bit of an uncomfortable experience with the fitting (nothing to do with the coil but my bits n bobs were awkward) so far so good! I'm 41 years old and I put off the fitting for a year, my periods were every 3 weeks bleeding for 7-10 days. I tried holistic methods of period control first after reading the horror stories, (but then again, no one ever reports good things unless asked because those people are just getting on with life). I had it fitted on the first day of my period and despite cramping and spotting, so far so good! I'm expecting the spotting to last for a while and have to give the coil the chance to settle, but i think on the whole this might work out to be a good choice! I think if you have it fitted and be realistic that it may suck for a little while, the benefits may become apparent further down the line! Fingers crossed...
I have recently become sexually active and needed a birth control method that was easy to get and not taken orally daily. I chose the mirena because I thought that my period would lighten, but it hasn't stopped bleeding since the day that I got it and I'm past 50 days no, yes it really has been more than 50 days. I WOULD NEVER RECOMMEND THIS TO ANYONE.
Let me first say, I truly believe that it all depends on the person. I am not going to react to something (good or bad) the way someone else will. With that being said.... I had the Paragard prior for 2 years and 1 month before I switched to Mirena. I was on birth control pills for 11+ years before that and was totally over it. Paragard had no hormones so I thought...PERFECT! Not perfect. It just didn't work out FOR ME. I knew cramps would happen and understood that I would have a heavier period but I didn't think I would bleed through everything every few hours the way I did. I already had a heavy period...didn't think it could get worse. I didn't know that my IUD would make sure I knew it was there every single day because I cramped to (what felt like) my ovaries and deeply every single day. My period was heavy for a week but I'd spot about half a way before and half a week after. Half the month I was bleeding. 2 years...I thought it would get better but that's just how my body reacted to it. So I said no more. I wasn't ready to give up on the IUD yet so I switched. I've been on the Mirena for 3 months now and I know the difference. Insertion wasn't bad because I already had
Well everything was all good foir the first 17 months after that I Experienced heavy bleeding for six weeks, headaches, depression and weight gain I was absolutely happy with this OUR for more than a year then all Hell broke loose I had it taken out and I currently have none of the above issues
It took some getting used to. I've tried every birth control there is. It works but made me spot almost all the time and made a foul discharge. I don't know why people don't talk about this. It smells like dead rats. That alone has made me want to take it out. Talk about embarrassing! I've never had this problem before I had this device.
I'm a 21 year old and never been pregnant and a lot of doctors advised me against it because people think it's only for women who have had children, this is a huge myth and it's actually less risky. I had bad cramping for a week after insertion but after that it's been perfect, no side-effects, no mood swings or weight gain which I had on 4 different pills. Insertion was uncomfortable only in that it felt like period cramps
Getting it pierced into your cervix wasn't too bad but the pain afterwards is what killed me, major cramping for up to 3 days and it feels like you were on your period as a teenager. After a year it completely stopped my period and I'm never going to switch back to any other form of bc.
I suffer from heavy bleeding, had to get d&c 6 months after both of my c sections because I would not stop bleeding. I had an ovarian cyst burst recently, then my period came and lasted two months. I was having extremely large clots and heavy bleeding to where my hemoglobin levels dropped from an 11 to a 7. I got winded walking up a flight of stairs. I am now severely anemic and mirena was the recommended first step to control the bleeding. Insertion was uncomfortable, but quick. I took Tylenol before hand, had minimal cramping for about 24 hours and my bleeding has all but stopped 5 days into it. The morning before my appointment I had clots so large in the shower they would not go down the drain and I had to scoop them into the trash. Fun. Later that night, after Mirena, I had only light spotting. It has been amazing so far. It hasn't been a week yet, so we'll see how it goes, but this may have saved me from an ablation or hysterectomy, which are my two remaining options. I read negative reviews on here and worked myself up about side effects, but aside from a bit of dizziness (which could totally be the anemia) I am feeling more like my old self and am hopeful for little to no b
I was truly excited to start Mirena. I suffer from anemia as a result of extremely heavy and long periods. I had the first device inserted six weeks ago at Planned Parenthood. Insertion was more uncomfortable than painful - but I have a high tolerance for pain. Initially my only side effects were spotting and cravings. Four weeks in however, my body expelled it. I went in to see the doctor two weeks ago and had a second device implanted. And today, my body expel that as well. Now I'm six weeks in and I'm going to have to start from scratch with a new birth control method. Not pleased.
Hey everyone. So I got the Mirena IUD 5 weeks ago. I got endo removed and got the iud insterted at the same time. I had read so many negative reviews about the mirena that I wasn't going to get it at all. I previously had the copper IUD but it was making my endo worse, and I didn't want to take any hormones at all. After talking to my gyno i thought i would give the mirena a go and if i got bad side effects i could always get it removed. I am 23, have never been pregnant and have a history of anxiety/ depression and have hormonal acne. I was most worried about weight gain, acne and mood swings from the mirena and I was almost positive that I would get these side effects. BUT I DIDN'T!!!! I have only had slight pms mood swings and cramping in the first couple of weeks but I can honestly say that the mirena has exceeded my expectations and has been wonderful so far. To anyone who is scared of the mirena and the side effects I would suggest that you give it a go and if you don't like it get it removed. I have been eating healthy and exercising and I feel great with it in, and I was so so worried that I was going to have all of the side effects. side note: I had the copper IUD
I was really excited to take mirena in my late 20s. I did a lot of research and was skeptical but overall hopeful. Unfortunately the whole experience has been tough. The insertion hurt like hell, the cramps lasted a few days. I did not experience spotting. 5 months later I still get my periods, gained 15 lbs and experienced adult acne so severe I had to see a dermatologist. She immediately knew it was a result of my IUD. The cramps are awful I get them multiple times a month and I still have periods, not even lighter than they should be. Very sad.
I have had Mirena going on 8 weeks now. I've read so many comments that it made me scared to get it. 6 weeks after having my baby I got it done. It was pain free. I had spotting the first week. My first menstrual was 12 days. My second menstrual was 3 days and very light. I didn't have headaches( migraines) acne,pain during sex . NOTHING! This is the best form of birth control don't have to worry about taking pills every day. And now I don't even notice that it's here. My advice don't listen to all these negative reviews because everybody's body is different and is going to react differently. My experience so far has been amazing. Like I said you might have spotting the first week but that beats being pregnant.
I had the Mirena IUD inserted a month ago for extremely heavy bleeding and pain due to fibroids. So much so I am anemic. My OB/GYN did it when I was not on my period and I felt it was a pretty painful office procedure. Since having it inserted I am exhausted, feel weak kneed, and have problems breathing. I cannot climb stairs or even bend over without being completely out of breath and lightheaded. I feel completely awful and like I am crazy. I have since read that Mirena IUD and The thyroid medication Levothyrixine together can cause the breathlessness. I go in for my IUD check at the end of this month and strongly think I need it removed. I have read that's painful.
After less than 1 month the doctor couldn't find it. Now I have to have outpatient surgery to get it removed. My mood has changed some and I'm uncomfortable. I tried to love mirena but I do not wish to use this again.
So like everyone I did my research and read many negative reviews on mirena. I'm 35 I've never been pregnant and I had my mirena inserted during surgery to have an ovarian cyst removed and endo 3months ago . I experienced cramping in the first week to two but nothing unbearable that midol couldn't fix . I had spotting in the first month which is expected . My first period came and I had alittle cramping and very light bleeding . Second and third period came and I noticed The cramps were less painful and flow was really light that I only needed liners . I have to say mirena has helped me a lot with my monthly cycle since I've always had heavy flow and painful cramps . Now I don't have any symptoms. I was hesitant at first in getting mirena but I am really happy I did . mirena works but I get it's not for everyone . Hope this helps anyone considering mirena .
I had post menopausal bleeding, and my gyn told me it was the only option. I trusted him and had nothing but horrible side effects the entire three and a half years that I had it. Horrible depression and anxiety, aches and pains, bloating, blurred vision, migraines, tremors, feeling like I was losing my mind, hair loss, NO sex drive, completely gone, gained 50 lbs, and I'm sure there are more things that I am not including here. I got it out one week ago today, and feel better than I have in three years! No more brain fog, no weepy and depressed mood, sleeping better, more grounded, and we will see what happens with the bleeding, if it returns. If so, I may consider a hysterectomy...for now, I am beyond thrilled to have that terrible thing OUT of me, and would never recommend it to anyone. I would say read all that you can on the Internet. I'm sure it works well for some people, but so many have bad experiences. I wish I would have read them before getting it!!!
I had Mirena in for 3 years no problems at all, loved it. Then I had an ectopic pregnancy and it erupted my Fallopian tube, I was bleeding internally and needed emergency surgery. Use extreme caution with an IUD. I never imagined something like this could've happened to me.
Hi! So I've had the Mirena since I was 17 & I'm now 22, when I first got the Mirena I did about 2-3 days of research on all birth controls and then I spoke with my gyno about it and she reassured me this was the best fit for me. I have it a shot! The insertion was unbearably painful, and the next few days I had cramps so bad I couldn't work, I thought shit I need this thing out and then I waited and waited and my periods got smaller and smaller and the cramps got less and less. I LOVED IT! I went and got my 2nd one and the removal of the first was PAINFUL! But the insertion I expected, so not bad! Since my 2nd Mirena, I haven't had a full period, I spot maybe once every 5-6 months and get cramps once a month of about 1-2 days and they're very subtle! The Mirena isn't for everyone but for those who it can be for, I would do it!
I had my Mirena in for only a month- I seemed to be adjusting, fine with normal spotting 3 weeks after, cramping only the first 42 hours it was in (until my next period came) BUT I happened to go to the eye Dr. Where they diagnosed me with early stages of papilledimia, or swelling of the optic nerves due to excess cerebral spinal fluid built up in my brain. I have been experiencing all of the symptoms of a large brain tumor, while slowing going blind for the last month. I now need to see a brain specialist to make sure I'm not continuing to be effected even though I got the IUD removed- when caught early, the damage can be reversible. My Dr. Was not aware of this as a possible side effect, and was ready to tell me I was crazy, to just calm down, stop making things up, and wait for my body to adjust. Luckily she checked her facts before she came into my appointment, about all the current lawsuits against Mirena and how this medical condition is a direct link to the hormone. Please be careful ladies, we only get one body.
Yeah, I've got a few choice words about the Mirena. I've never been pregnant nor sexually active, but have had menstral bleeding on and off for 2 years now, and out of the 2 years, have bled for easily a year in total, so that's why I got this as I was obviously very anemic from the bleeding as you could probably guess. This product definitely has improved the bleeding heaviness wise, but I have still been experiencing bleeding on and off like I always have, but that's not why I'm rating this so low. I've only had it for 3 months now, so forgive me if it's too early to judge, but I can't take it anymore! I've had severe pain on and off, EXTREME mood swings, mostly phases of depression, and I feel nauseous all the time. Completely regret getting this thing in my body, and I should've known it was a bad idea when I was in severe pain for a week after it was inserted! Doctor said I wouldn't need pain meds, but I had to take heavy duty opioids to even get the pain to become tolerable, and sometimes I still do. Of course all bodies are different, so don't be quick to judge off of my review, but I just wanted to put my experience out there as kind of a forewarning as to what you may be g
I had the Mirena inserted, abit painful but got through it. I was having very heavy periods and for birth control. Unfortunately I was one of the ones it didn't work for. My body did not seem happy. I had it in for about a year, It was like I was having a period whether spotting or heavy for about 2/3 of the month. My joints started to ache especially my upper leg joints to a point where walking became sore at times. I also noticed my husbands semin burnt me so we had to use condoms when I didnt have my period and we were together. One plus, ironically...my libido was so high which did not help as I was having my period so often. I couldn't take it anymore and had it removed. With in a momth or two, i cannot remember the exact time frame, my period returned back to it's normal 7 days, that joint pain went, my husbands semin didn't burn...and my libido....well that went back to what it was. It was like my body was not happy with it been in there and was telling me so. I have since had my tubes tied, for contraception purposes. But other people seem ok with it. My friend has one in and is very happy. It just didn't work for me.
Ok so I, like most, read a ton of reviews. Both bad and good. But the horror stories seemed to stand out the most. I decided I would give it a try. So unfortunately I had to be on my period for them to insert it. So that kinda sucked. I have not had any kids yet so I think that's why? I went in and got all situated. I read that this was the most painful part. It wasnt pleasant but it wasnt unbearably painful. Felt like bad period cramps. The day I got it (Friday) I went to Walgreens, Wal-Mart, Starbucks, the bank, packed 4 coolers with food and drinks and loaded up our truck and camper to go camping for the weekend. I had mild cramps over the weekend. I took Midol so i didnt have to deal with them camping. Ive had it for 4 days now and I'm not really bleeding anymore. Don't let the horror reviews scare you from Mirena. Also I got this 3 months after heart surgery and have no issues whatsoever.
I absolutely love he mirena! I've been on this since may of 2017 so far it's great ! No bleeding no cramping, weight gain/loss no sex drive decrease ! It's wonderful , conceivent and effective thus far! Would highly recommend to anyone looking for long term birth control ! Only problem was the actual insertion very painful 4-5mins a ton of pressure and made me cramp instantly for the remains of that day . Other than that it's totally worth the pain !
first off I tried inserting the mirena in the doc's office but it ws too painful. I had to get surgery to have in put in. that was may 24th it is now Aug 15 and I have bled every day since. sometimes light sometimes very heavy. im about ready to take it out. some people say it take up to 6 months for your body to adjust, howver, if by the end of aug I don't stop bleeding I will take it out.
I read the online reviews and was quite concerned. But when I spoke to my Gyno she stated that 1 in 4 women do not tolerate mirena well, and the majority of online reviews are from people who have had a bad experience with it, and now I agree with her. I am 29 and I had Mirena inserted 6 weeks ago for hormone replacement therapy (HRT) due to underdeveloped ovaries and uterus. While I had success with the pill (two different types that have grown my uterus for potential IVF) I was still experiencing hot flushes, mood swings, and regular and heavy break through periods that were causing many problems. In addition to this I have labial irritation due to cervical discharge as a result of HRT. Mirena was prescribed with Estradot patches as a potential solution to my HRT side effects. Insertion was very uncomfortable, but pain did not persist except for a mild headache and stomach cramps. So far in 6 weeks I have experienced spotting and 5 days (sporadic) light bleeds. I have had mild cramps, which have been nothing compared to when I had a regular period, and hot flushes (presumably due to not enough oestrogen). My Dr wants to see how I settle down over the next few months, and I am mor
I got the mirena about 2 weeks ago. Yes I'm aware it's a little too early to review but I wanted to share. Insertion went fine! Done in about 2 minutes. Cramping was tolerable for me because I suffer from horrible menstrual cramps. So it was nothing compared to what I dealt with. The dr said I would feel dizzy or nauseated but I didnt. I actually went grocery shopping afterwards lol. I had no cramping or bleeding the first week. 2nd week I had light spotting for a day but it was seriously barely noticeable. My only problem with it is my lower back hurts from time to time and my husband says he can feel it during sex and it's uncomfortable. Other than that there's no problems with it
Prior to getting my Mirena put in, I read numerous reviews and horror stories about how painful getting an IUD is. I was terrified walking into my gyno to get mine. However, it was NOT painful at all! If anything, it was just 30 seconds of an uncomfortable feeling. No pain at all. After the procedure, I almost fainted and was very clammy. About 30 minutes later I was perfectly fine again. I had light cramps for the next week but with a little advil I couldn't feel them at all. It has been about a month since then, and I've had no problems!
so i have had mirena since february, and im thinking about taking it out. i dont know if the sickness ive been feeling is because or mirena or not... but i have been in and out of doctors offices for the past week, and ive had several needles in me for bloodwork. first of all, mirena insertion took my doctor almost 2 hours, and was incredibly painful. my cervix is apparently very angled, which was probably the majority of the cause for the pain and time it took. but i have struggled with extreme cramps my entire life and this was beyond that. i had to stay lying down for about 20 minutes, i went pale, and almost passed out. i had bad cramps for about 45 days after insertion as well... making me reallly wish i hadnt gone through with mirena. then the cramps went away and all was well. i have gained a ton of weight on mirena. never was i told that was a possibility. in fact i was told that it was less likely. so thats fun. but now comes the past week. ive been having cramps so badly i thought my appendix had burst. i had to call out of work several times, and nothing fixes it. not pain killers, not midol, im just in pain. ive been breaking out, ive been very emotional. i ha
I got Mirena today. The pain is manageable don't get me wrong you feel like you have awful cramps but it only lasted 60 seconds or less for me. It was the 2nd day of my period which is the heaviest day for me and within 2 hours of Mirena my period is very lite!! This makes me happy since my periods can be a pain. Again only been 1 day but so far I'm happy with Mirena.
My experience with Mirena is NOT all butterflies and rainbows, but it is still WORTH IT to me. This is my story without sugar coating. I had Mirena inserted in December 2016, so it's been about 9 months. I haven't had children, so insertion was very painful for me and I had a vasovagal response that made my blood pressure drop low, to where I almost fainted. It took about a week for the insertion cramps to subside. I had some bad cramping for the first few months whenever I would ovulate and my period was pretty unpredictable. I have been on the pill (I think it was off brand Yaz) for years to control my heavy periods and acne problems. Unfortunately, the Mirena doesn't help with my acne. My periods are much lighter than they were on the pill, but are still unpredictable. I have gained a lot of weight while on Mirena. I was exactly watching what I ate though. I just have to be more careful with my diet than I have been in the past. All that being said, I feel like it is worth it. Being a college student, my schedule is all over the place. I never get up at the same time and my schedule changes from day to day, making it incredibly difficult to set a time every day wher
At age 41, I had very heavy periods due to fibroids. My gynecologist recommended Mirena and it worked wonders! Insertion was easy and quick and it did what I was told it would do. Periods were frequent, however, they were light and it was still better than having to wear an adult diaper for the heavy bleeding I had before. It also increased my libido and lubrication, making intercourse even better. Fast forward 5 years to age 46 when I had the Mirena replaced. Gynecologist had trouble inserting it because of "scar tissue" in my cervix. After trying several times it was finally in. I went home and it felt like my vagina was swollen. I thought it was simply because she had trouble getting the IUD inserted and irritated things in there. Well, it's been 7 months and the swelling seems to still be there as well as a growing abdomen. Like many of you I thought I was pregnant, but two tests came out negative. I have gained 18 lbs. and am now the heaviest I've ever been at 218 lbs. I ride my bike and walk for exercise, but the scale keeps rising. Even my "fat girl" clothes no longer fit and my abdomen and lower back often ache. I had breast soreness as well, but that has passed. Doctor s
Was a little painful getting inserted but I am a person who had severe cramps every month with my period so, the cramping from insertion did not bother me. The first few months I had really bad cramps at random but 3 months in and they have started to subside. I was a little worried about weight gain because of the horror stories I saw online but I have been to the doctor every month and noticed that I have lost 10 pounds since the day that it was inserted. It has been very effective, only side effect i have experienced is cramping and mood swings for the first 2 months. Love it.
PERFORATED MY UTERUS! Please think carefully before you opt for the Mirena. I was a healthy 26 year old who had no problems on Microgynon however the Doctors scared me into looking into progesterone only options. On insertion, it wasn't an easy in-out and I was screaming in pain to the point I almost asked them to stop. Thinking this was normal, I persevered. Afterwards I was in hysterics because the pain was so severe and lasted for a good few hours. After bleeding for 3 months solid I wanted it out. After numerous tests where they couldn't find it in my uterus, it turns out it perforated my uterus on insertion (appaz I have a forward facing uterus) and it is in my pelvic region. Ive been told to think about a laparoscopy or whether to leave the bloody thing in. All very scary decisions for a 26 year old who has not even thought about having children yet :-(
I was on the marina for a total of 6 months. Before this I was on YAZ, and loved it. I only changed onto the medina at the suggestion of my Doc as my periods were so heavy on yaz I was exhausted due to anemia. Instead of trying any alternatives she immediately suggested a bit of plastic in my uterus... So. Insertion was one of the most painful experiences I've had in my life. Horrible, and extremely cramping for 3 days after. Spotted for about a week and it settles. 2 months in went to hospital for severe pain on my right side and I was suffering from a cysts on my right and left ovary. I had never suffered from these before and this was a side effect of the medina. Sometimes if can even cause multiple cysts which can leave to feritlity problems I found after reading reputable research articles. Keep this in mind if choosing after this I wanted it removed and my doctor refused saying things would "settle". 2 months in I started having severe hair loss and went to my doctor who refused to put 2 and 2 together since it contains not estrogen and I'm having hair loss due to estrogen withdrawals (been on estrogen based pills since I was 15, now 22) 3 months in my moods had decrease
My partner nearly hit the roof the first time we had sex after I had the mirena inserted. The string which feels like fishing wire apparently felt like a needle to him. I went back to my gynecologist who cut the string back slightly to around 2cm so that she would still be guaranteed to be able to remove the mirena without surgery when I needed it removed. He can still feel it so I am now going to have to have it removed next week as I don't want to risk needing surgery to have the stupid thing removed. That was an expensive & useless ordeal.
I have had the Mirena for almost 2 years now. When I had it placed at first it was great. I had very little bleeding afterwards and my cycle stopped almost within a month. About 3 months ago I started having some cramping but didn't think much of it. My husband and I decided about 1 month ago I would go and have it removed. So I went to my OBGYN thinking it was going to be no big deal but the Doctor could not find it or the stings. So I was told I had to go have an ultra sound done. So skip forward 2 weeks I had to go in today to have it surgically removed due to being stuck in the muscle of the uterian wall. In turn having to miss 2 days of work and dealing with the cramping and inconvenience of it all. I would definitely not recommend this to anyone! Talking to peers or peers of others I have not been the only one having issues! If this product has this many issues even some saying the are having fertility problems this should be taken away as a form of birth control!!!
After being on the pill for years I decided to use something that I didn't have to worry about taking every single day. My OBGYN was absolutely wonderful she was done in one minute and it was quick. I have a high pain tolerance so luckily it was very tolerable and I went to the gym right after I had it done. I no longer get my periods and when I did they were super short and extremely light to the point where I didn't even need to use a pad. I'm so happy with my MIRENA as I have had no side effects...I would totally recommend! So far I've had it for 2 years with no problems.
My OB recommended Mirena to help with severe dysmenorrhea. I was going through a 72ct pack of overnight pads each cycle. My mood swings and fatigue were at times unbearable. After 1.5 months on Mirena I can definitely tell a change in my body for the better. I had it inserted right after my period ended. I bleed lightly for about 2 weeks after. Cramps were there but bearable. I started what I consider my normal period a week ago and it has been so much better. I'd compare before to a downpour and now to a light drizzle. I have much more energy and less fatigue and down time around my period. All of the side effects seem to have subsided. I am very happy with choosing Mirena. No weight gain issues so far either or acne.
My first week was painful it felt like stabbing but it went away and now its like nothing is there. I dont have to worry about it for 5 years (: very happy with it
I had this for 7 years and a few months. It causes me to have panic attacks anxiety attacks. Massive weight gain and couldn't get it off no matter how hard I tried. Made me feel weird. It also gave me a pelvic infection. Got it out in February of 2017 and I've lost weight no more panic attacks no more anxiety attacks. And I'm not a moody bitchy person anymore either.
I am 44 and decided to try the Mirena due to heavy periods and I really should no longer be on the pill due to high bp. So I got it 3 days ago. Yes it's a bit painful but my Dr was done in 30 seconds. After having babies this was not bad. So I decided to make the latest appointment so I could go home and rest after which worked out perfect. I tested that evening with a little bit of spotting and cramps. The next day was fine with less spotting and less cramps. Day three and I'm fine. No bleeding and no cramping so I'm hoping this is how it continues to be. Will check in , in about 6 months. And remember ladies everyone is different and reacts differently. But so far so good.
Alright , I've had the mirena going on 4 yrs. I decided to give this a go after every other BC failed on me. I am 35 w 3 kids and done wanting any more. When I got the implant it hurt like hell. I was told I would feel a pinch and mild period like cramping, but I felt like the day after given birth. The cramps very severe, the bleeding was out of this world . It lasted me a whole day and day 2 I was cramping and bleeding like w my normal periods. I spent like four months bleeding after that. At times it was heavy bleeding , others would be normal to just spotting. My whole system was sure discombobulated. My migraines sure did get worse. I gained weight but I blame that on the fact I slowly stopped being active . Idk, maybe Mirena had something to do with my lack of energy. I've had this for quite sometime and I do still get my crazy periods. Heavy , normal, spotting, oh and at times I get cramps for no reason. As mentioned up top, all BC failed so I've just dealt w the side effects of mirena to the point that I'm used to it all. Some women claim it has stopped their period completely , I rather get mine even if it's all helter skelter. I wanted a BC that would keep me from gettin
I got the mirena 5/10/17 and had a constant period until I went in for my follow-up. My dr put me on the pill to help line things out for 3 months. I've been taking the pill 2 months now and that helped a lot! I was considering having it taken out but am loving it now. Try this before you have it taken out, it's worth. No weight gain or any other side effects and my periods are a lit lighter now.
Yes it's super helpful because you don't have to remember to take it, and it's there for 5 years BUT what your doctor might not tell you is you will bleed. For a long time. I was warned I'd spot for a couple days, but here I am a month later bleeding with a heavy flow... keep that in mind when deciding which birth control to take. I went to the doctor today, and she told me this is normal and might happen for a couple more months. I'm not in pain but the annoyance and cost of constantly wearing tampons/pads is enough for me to regret getting this form of birth control.
I got my IUD back in december from planned parenthood! I originally thought I would get the birth control that is put into ones arm, but I heard it could increase depression and anxiety so I decided on the minerva IUD. Anyway, it has worked great! When it was first inserted I expirianced pain similar to period cramps, but it was not intense. For a month after, I had a constant period. I was freaked out at the time, but I found out it was a normal side effect. For the next few months I had an irregular period, but more recently it has stopped completely (which I love). Overall very effective and has made my life much easier in terms of daily life and contraception.
I've had Mirena since shortly after my youngest was born 6.5 years ago. Insertion is not pleasant, but the discomfort lasted only a couple hours for me. I get very minor spotting some months. I have not had a real period since I first got Mirena. I also do not get normal mood swings or cramps. My period was heavy, painful and very irregular. Mirena has allowed me a new sense of freedom and control over my body. I did have trouble losing weight after the Mirena was inserted, about 6 weeks postpartum, but have recently changed my diet and become more active and I am nearly back to my pre-baby weight. I have nothing but great things to say about Mirena. After struggling with my period and trying every bc method out there, I am so happy to have found one that works for me. This is a life changing birth control and period-symptom reduction option for me.
First piece of advice, take a painkiller beforehand! I was rushing and I totally forgot, I won't make that mistake again. I won't lie, this was the most pain I have ever experienced in my life, and I consider myself as having a fairly high pain threshold. However, I haven't had kids, and the doctor said during the procedure that my womb was tilted which definitely made a difference. All was well to start with, there was the doctor and a nurse on hand, she did the first part (clamping open the cervix) with no issues. As expected this was a bit uncomfortable, kind of like someone pinching your internal organs?, and it made me feel a bit sick but nothing bad. Then she went in with the IUD and that's where the trouble started. When I had my first PAP test the nurse said I was "small", so I was a bit apprehensive anyway, but when the doctor said "lets have a break for 5 minutes" and put some numbing gel on my cervix I knew I was in for a ride... After the gel went on she went in again, it took a few goes and oh my god, the pain, I now know what the expression "seeing stars" means. Eventually the doctor got it in and hallejuiah it was over. They immediately took my blood pressure as it m
I had the mirena placed 8 wks post having my baby girl. I was painful the insertion but i was able to drive home and the pain was mild not enough to take medication. I had not gotten my 1st period but once inserted that week i finally got it. Guess the hormones brought it down. Its 12 days and im still seeing my menstrual. Feeling a bit light headed because im prone to anemia. Ive been experiencing pelvic pain only on the right side, right leg and right buttock for about a week or more. Now im beginning to think maybe something is wrong. Will check with the Dr today. Overall i would still recommend. Its only beem about 3 weeks since insertion.
I just had Mirena put in today. The procedure wasn't bad, just felt light cramping and a small pinch. I haven't had very much cramping afterwards and very light bleeding. My Dr explained to me that I could possibly bleed for 3-6 months but everyone is different. I also read a lot about Mirena before making my decision. So far so good! Its a relief knowing that I don't have to worry about missing a pill.
First of all everyone's bodies are different and the side effects from medication will very. It's the chance you take. I tried birth-control pills and had the worst depression and chest pains. I stopped taking them after 1 week and was extremely upset that my body had that reaction. I then had my period for a week then off for a week then back on for a week for about a month.. it sucked. I decided to try the Mirena. I really didn't like the idea but it's better than getting pregnant at 43. I had it inserted 4 days before my period (never had kids) and it sucked. The day I was supposed to start my period I began spotting. Only enough for a panty liner. And that kind of sucked because it lasted for a month and I was crampy and bloated feeling and wanted to get it removed after 2 weeks. I told myself I'll give it a month. The day my period was supposed to start I stopped spotting and started feeling normal. I gained 1 pound in that month and don't have any side effects that I know of. Also my sex drive is still the same and I didn't tell my boyfriend about the strings and he has never mentioned anything about feeling something weird up there. I wouldn't recommend it
I had my Mirena IUD inserted so that I would not get pregnant, not so that I would feel pregnant ALL. OF. THE. D***. TIME!!!! I have taken two pregnancy tests because I was so sure that I was pregnant again. Seriously. Grab a cup of tea, sit down, and get comfy.... these are my symptoms: - Worst period cramps being #3 on the worst pain I have ever felt, right behind (#1) Gallbladder stone attacks and (#2) labor. - Hair is dry, brittle, and keeps falling out (I cannot play hide and seek anymore because of the literal trail of hair) - Constantly bleeding (I live with a tampon inside me. This is what is really keeping me from getting pregnancy again) - Lowest libido I have ever had (Hubby:"Babe. You are so gorgeous... Wanna..." Me: "Do. Not. Come. Near. Me. Never. Nope. Not Now. Not Ever. Ew!") - Huge mood swings (I already have depression. I do not need the new depression 3000!) - Gained 30 pounds in 3 months (At least it is an even ten each month. Thanks Mirena!) - Heartburn (Cannot bend over. Cannot eat anything delicious. It hurts to pick up my six month old) - Extreme exhaus......zzzzz..... - Constant breast tenderness (I walked around the house the other da
I never review anything, however, because I almost didn't get mirena because of all the negative reviews, I thought I'd share my experience. It was inserted on day 3 of my very heavy PCOS style period. There was a slight pinch while the doctor measured my uterus, but I had zero cramping. My period stopped that night. In the couple months since, I've only had no full period, just a few days of spotting. I have not had any weight gain or negative side effects. I could not be more pleased. I wish I would've done this years ago and saved myself the pain and spontsneous heavy bleeding that comes with PCOS.
I can only give input on insertion right now. I read reviews on Mirena last night & let me tell you don't believe everything you read. There's alot of negative things said. I was scared today when I went in to get it. However it was simple & pretty much painless. I felt 2 mild cramps that weren't any worse than what I've had every month with my period. Honestly all it feels like is when you go in for a pap smear. I was instructed to take 800mg iburprofen the night before, 800mg when I woke up, & 800mg before my appointment. I haven't had any cramping other than on insertion. I'm hoping that this helps with my heavy periods & I don't have to try something else.
So I love my Mirena but I know the experience can be different for everyone but this was mine. So I've never had kids and so I had to be on my period to get it inserted. When I went in the insertion was fast but it feels like the worst cramp that you have ever had. I don't recommend driving yourself to your procedure just because of the cramping right afterward. But after about 2 hours the cramping had pretty much dissipated and I was feeling much better. I have not had an issue with it yet and it has lightened and spaced my periods and I have only had for about 5 months. The downside however is although my most recent periods have only be two to three days, the cramping is worse and more concentrated than it was before my IUD (less of a throb more of a jab). That being said I still LOVE my Mirena insertion and its worth it for not having to take the pill every day.
I had mirena inserted this morning and I was nervous after reading the reviews. It was not bad at all. I literally felt a little pinch and a small cramp during the procedure. I've had mild cramping today but nothing serious and very light spotting...
Placement was painful. I have every side effect (daily spotting, daily cramping, nausea, dizziness, swelling, weight gain, acne, depression, nervousness, decrease in sexual interest, etc)
The Mirena IUD insertion was about an 8/10 on pain scale. After I left the procedure, I had zero pain that night and wasn't limited in any way. In the weeks following I had minor cramping. I had my period for about two straight months following insertion. I had my mirena inserted in April, and it is now mid-July. I get my period at least once month, sometimes with heavy cramping on day 1. I am hoping that my period eventually goes away like some mentioned it has. My biggest word of caution is regarding weight gain. Post insertion I have had a lot of issues maintaining my weight and not ballooning out of control. I am consistent with what I eat, and have noticed that it is extremely easy to gain weight on Mirena, and it feels like no matter what I do I gain weight. Some argue that mirena doesn't contain the hormones that cause weight gain, and I'm telling you that that's false. I'm not a doctor, but I can tell you that I changed nothing with my diet and exercise and I gained nearly 10 pounds. And, it is VERY hard to get the weight off. More difficult than it was to lose weight before I got the IUD. I'm about 3 months post insertion and my weight has leveled back out all
I decided to share my experience to add a positive review about the Mirena IUD. I had my IUD inserted about a week ago. Going in for the insertion I was terrified based on all the reviews I read online referring to the pain. An hour before my appointment I took 800mg of ibuprofen, my gyno didn't recommend anything else before the insertion. When the insertion started, I kept waiting for the worst pain of my life to come but it never did. The pain was about 4/10, but I wouldn't even consider it pain, uncomfortable may be a better word (sharp cramping but bearable – you will survive!) before I knew it my gyno said done and I was shocked. I wasn't on my period (so I needed to be dilated) and I was on the 3rd week of my pill pack. My gyno suggested finishing my pack, which I did. The first day I had cramping and slight bleeding which was expected but the bleeding stopped on the second day and my cramps continued here and there. Today is my second day on my period which came with no symptoms. My period is already much lighter than usual to the point that I'm only wearing panty liners (I never had very heavy periods previously and I've been on the pill for about 5 years before this) I'm
I've been on mirena for a year and 6 months I feel moody all the time I feel tired I don't feel like having sex at all I've gained weight I feel depressed and I get anxiety like crazy i get acne so the only good thing about mirena is that I'm not pregnant
Well hi there friends! I have been using the Mirena IUD for five years now- I am getting it taken out and another inserted at the beginning of August. Let me tell you my PERSONAL truth about this device. While I was still younger I was still using condoms for safety, as the Mirena does NOT protect you from STIs. Once I got engaged, STIs weren't a worry for us and we no longer use them. Over the past five years, I've had so many people ask me if it was worth it. Overall, YES YES YES, it has been totally worth it. I've never given birth, so yes, the insertion process hurt quite a bit and it wasn't "no big deal" as some women feel it is. In saying that, I have a very small uterus and like I said I've never given birth and those are factors that play a role in whether or not it hurts a lot or a little. I've never worried if I was pregnant, I never had to remember to take a pill at the right time every day, I saved so much money on feminine hygiene products because I never had a full blown period and was very happy about that. (I did have a day of coloured discharge or very very light spotting that I count as my "period".) The menstrual cramps were absolutely still present. I
The insertion was simple, I had no spotting or bleeding since I got it in about three weeks ago.!! I love it I am really looking forward to not having to worry about taking a pill every day. And it is agreeing with my body great.
I am 25 with one child. Got the mirena inserted 7 months ago. The insertion was slightly painful as they had a lot of trouble getting my cervix to open enough to put it in and I experienced cramping for a few days. Had lighter periods for the first 3 months and only occasionally spotting from there on. No effect on my sex drive. However, I did experience weight gain with it! When I had it inserted earlier this year I was 20 pounds lighter. I am a very active person and eat fairly healthy so I know its not from that. But, it's a great BC otherwise as you don't really have to worry about taking a pill everyday and it lasts for a long time.
I tried Mirena back in 2007, after 1yr of having my daughter. It fell out of place then. I am 29 and I have it another chance after experiencing horrible side effects from Blisovi24 BC pills. I got it placed 3/2017. Insertion was painful. I was on pain pills for a week, and I have a high tolerance for pain. Almost immediately, period gone completely with no spotting. I often get cramping and since have gained 20lbs. Family have asked if I am pregnant, because the bloat is serious. I am getting it removed because it swells my feet, gained weight, hair loss (even cut my hair), and cramping+bloating. However, it is super effective in preventing pregnancy. Also been told that after removal, it take a long time to be able to get pregnant. I hate periods but it's a normal process of life, plus how else are you to know that you are pregnant?? I hate the foreign objected feeling in my pelvic area, constant cramping as well. I tried all birth controls except the norplant and shot. Think I will just go without, because they ALL give me side effects that are undesirable.
After having used depo provera for 8 years I decided to try Mirena. I can't comment on the long term effects as I only had mine put in one day ago. The procedure was excruciatingly painful and I felt nauseous and dizzy after. I spent the rest of the day in bed unable to move from the agony, couldn't even eat or drink I felt so ill. Was an absolutely horrible experience and I think people should be prepared for the pain and shock your body will go into after having this done.
I had the mirena inserted in 2011 about 2 months after I had gave birth to my 2nd child. My friend also got the mirena and warned me about weight gain. I actually lost weight while I had the mirena but I was really concerned that I was becoming moody because of the hormones. The plus is that my periods vanished so I was pleased, but bc of concerns of moodiness, I removed it in 2014 and switched to the copper IUD. When I took the mirena out I bled like I was dying. I had clotting the size of golf balls and I would bleed heavy for 7-9 days length of periods. It was horrible. Still with the copper IUD my period cycles were so heavy I would wear a tampon with pads meant for bladder control issues- regular pads were not cutting it. I would have to change every two hours. Then I became severely anemic. Hemoglobin dropped to a 6. Started taking iron went up to an 8, but still the periods weee causing me to get yeast infections bc i was losing too much blood. In 2017, I took the copper IUD out and put the mirena back in. Looking forward to lighter and non existent periods again to counteract against all the turmoil I've been experiencing the past three years.
I waited for months to get the Mirena because after reading all the reviews about the insertion process I was super scared. I finally sucked it up and did it. I did not take ibuprofen before insertion, but I did take some after to help with the cramps. And btw the insertion isn't as bad as most of these reviews state. Yes you experience a big menstrual cramp, but it's seriously over in two seconds. It's not comfortable, but it's not horrible. Basically the way I view it is suck it up for two seconds and don't deal with pills or shots for 5 whole years. So worth the cramps. I did have cramping for probably 4 hours fmafter insertion, but nothing crazy. Just regular menstrual cramps. Don't be scared. Trust me you'll make it through and you'll be super happy you did. 5 years of birth control freedom.
Ive been using mirena for the past year and 6 months now it's been working but I get a lot of acne and I've gained 30 lbs I'm moody all the time I'm not pregnant so that's good
I had Mirena inserted today. I have never had to experience menstrual cramps but they said it's feel like that. I think measuring the cervix was the most painful part. I forgot to breathe which made it worse so when they reminded to breathe I felt better. It is super crappy however before I switched to this I had been getting the Nexplanon for years (they cut open your arm about an inch and insert a tiny little plastic rod about one inch long as well) considering having to get the shot to numb it and the weeks of bruising I'm happy with the process of getting Mirena. Overall pain level for me 5/10
I had Mirena implanted in March of 2016. The positives hardly no period at all and no worry about becoming pregnant. Unfortunately the negative side effects have over taken the positives and I will be having it taken out next week. July of 2017. I have had major weight gain the month I had it put in I weighed 121 lbs I am now at 150. The headaches are unbearable and over the past six months have noticed a lot of hair loss. None of these things are worth it to me.
This is the second time I have had a Mirena inserted. I had the first one for five years found it completely stopped the pain I had been experiencing from endometriosis. The insertion was relatively painless. After the initial couple of months any spitting/ bleeding stopped. I would definitely recommend this device.
I really really love this IUD. I could never take the pill because I have Generalized Anxiety Disorder and the hormone change would cause me to have crazy panic attacks. This IUD has really low and concentrated amount of hormones that doesn't affect me at all. There is the paragard that has no hormones, but if you're like me and regularly have an extremely heavy flow, I'd get this. Paragard can make your flow a lot worse. I got this about 4 months ago, insertion is different for everyone but for me it was painless. I only felt mild pressure. You might want to take the next couple of days off though because whew! The cramps from it settling kept me in bed for 2 days straight. Then on and off cramping (not as bad) for about a month. After that first month, my periods have been extremely light, I can wear a panty liner the whole time! Very effective birth control! I would definitely recommend to women trying to not have babies or even make their period lighter. Also, I've never had kids if that helps influence your decision :)
I love it. At first it hurt to have sec but know I don't feel it at all. I would definitely recommend this.
For a 26 year old with no kids, getting this device inserted was the worst experience ever. It took 2 doctors visits, and a pill to make me ovulation before the doctor could get it in. I was in pain for 2 weeks ( no exaggeration ). And .... my favorite part.... I gained almost 20lbs in 5 months. It's only been 5 months. Not happy at all. I will be getting in removed. Next week.
I had Mirena inserted two months ago. I have been bleeding continuously since then, though it is not as painful as before. I would rather the bleeding than the pain I used to go through.
I've gotten the Mirena IUD placed in October 2016 after giving birth to my second child. They placed it in after my delivery so I didn't feel any pain besides the pain I was already in from natural child birth. After a few months with this is I became very depressed. I'm always irritated and I cry for no reason at all as if I was a hormonal pregnant woman again. I have been suffering a lot of major cramping and pelvic pains. My relationship has been on the rocks from all my mood swings that I can't explain to him. My sex drive is normal but sometimes sexual intimacy creates more pelvic pain and severe cramping. I've had it for 9 months so far and I'm finally making an appointment to have it removed. The pain and mood swings are not worth it for me. I don't recommend this drug to anyone else.
I have had the mirena in for almost a year now and it has to be the best decision I have made. I have had no prior children and have a pretty low tolerance but the insertion took no more than 5 seconds of a tough cramp and a Motrin. For the first couple of months my period continued but since the 6 month mark I haven't gotten my period. Being a college student I love not having to worry about a daily dose or monthly shot. The only bad thing about mirena is that when I did have my period I had cramps. But that stops when my period did. Now I have no period , an effective birth control, and no worries or discomfort. I would prescribe it to anyone looking for the best birth control option.
I had my Mirena inserted on 4/21/2017, just over 2 months ago. My experience getting it inserted was good, even though I was quite nervous from hearing some bad stories. Here's a breakdown of my experience: Insertion The most painful part was when they were measuring my uterus. My gynecologist had a long, thin, ruler-type thing that she had to move around inside my uterus to measure it for the insertion. I had one sharp, quick pain from like, like a needle prick. Then she put in a cervix clamp to hold open my cervix so that she could get the IUD in. I'm 31 and have no children so my cervix is not very open. The clamp to me felt like when your cervix is swabbed for a Pap smear, so it was uncomfortable but not painful. Then the clamp fell off (my strong cervix!) and had to be re-clamped. Then she tried to put in the IUD and the opening wasn't big enough for it to go through. That was also uncomfortable and mildly painful, I could feel the poking/pushing against my cervix. She put on another clamp to open up my cervix more and again tried to put in the IUD, felt more poking/pressure and then felt it go into the uterus. There was a bit of a sharp pain again, very fleeting though. E
After 4 years of painful periods, i finally went to my doctor and we decided to give this a try. I have numerous fibroids with the largest being 4cm. This did make it a bit trickier but my dr was fabulous. It was no more uncomfortable than a pap test to have implanted although i have had two children. My youngest born in 1996. I did choose to do a biopsy while i was there since it was recommended. Im 47. It wasnt that bad either. I am perimenopausal and suffer from occasional night sweats but its mostly the heavy and painful periods that prompted me towards this option. I had about 2 days of spotting that was very likely attributed to the biopsy. I had a bit of cramping and lower back pain for about 2 days. Biopsys can cause lower back pain as well. Nothing that advil didnt fix ( i forgot to take it before my appointment. Whups) and absolutely nowhere near the pain i experience on day 3,4 and 5 of my cycle. I took the afternoon off work (desk job) but i could have easily returned to work immediately after. I cant say i had any side effects with acne etc but i am prone to minor breakouts normally. That has not improved nor gotten worse. For me, it has stopped my p
I just got the IUD inserted this afternoon. I'm 21 and I've never had a child. I read all of the reviews and psyched myself up because all the reviews said it was terrible... I'm not going to lie, it hurts. I have a very high pain tolerance, and it definitely hurt. When I say hurt, I mean cramping, a lot of cramping. During the measuring of the cervix and the actual insertion of the IUD. After it's all done, it's still painful, but not as bad. My ride home wasn't fun, I would describe them as very bad menstural cramps.. I was dizzy and felt very nauseous. But now, it's been about an hour and I feel a lot better. Still cramping, but manageable. I would recommend taking the rest of the day to relax. I would definitely recommend this to someone looking for another form of BC. I hope this helps!
I had the Miranda inserted after my third boy was born. Five years later I had another one put in and kept it in for two more years. It was great not having a period but the migraines that I had were horrid. Almost every other week towards the last! Finally after having a migraine for 2 weeks I became desperate and had it removed! Within a week my migraine was gone and to this day, (1 year later) I am migraine free! Also, we have tried to have another baby now for almost a year and I cannot conceive, whereas before I would get pregnant almost as soon as we started trying for a baby! Very grieving to me! I feel a lot more like a woman without having the Miranda! It was nice not having to worry about birth control for those 7 years but I regret it now! (And I did not enjoy the headaches!)
It is going to make 2 years in July that I have the Mirena in. The first 6-12 months I experienced long heavy "periods". I would say for the first 6 months I bled for 3 out of 4 weeks. 1 week heavy and the other 2 weeks i would spot. This obviously made it nearly impossible to be comfortable but I dealt with it. As of the past 6 months my period is now "normal". just longer than it was before I had mirena. Which is weird because the mirena is supposed to decrease periods...anyway, this month I haven't gotten a period at all. But during the week I should have gotten my period i did experience premenstrual symptoms....I'm not sure what to expect moving forward but Ive just been observing myself month to month. I plan to just leave it in since it is so convenient. Im 25 with a 2 year old and am not planning for another kid any time soon. I haven't really had any other symptoms other than the bleeding. my ph balance definitely got out of wack since I had it placed and that was a bad experience. Its under control now but I have to take certain measures when I never had to worry about my ph before. I am curious if the mirena causes food cravings in me because i feel it does. Some
I put off getting this for two years because I was mostly scared of the procedure itself. I'm 46 and have terrible PMS and then terrible periods. My Dr recommended this to stop all of that. She said that getting it done on your period is better. So when I started that got me in the same day. I took 600 mg of ibuprofen before. I was so scared and while sitting there waiting for the terrible pain and discomfort to come she said ok we're done. Literally less than a minute. I had very little discomfort, a little pressure and cramp, but nothing worse than the terrible cramps I get from my period. I just got it so I'll see how well it works for what I got it for.
I had been on the birth control pill for many years. Unfortunately I have been experiencing premenopausal symptoms for the last few years. I have been doing my own research to help alleviate night sweats, hot flashes and more importantly extremely heavy bleeding. My periods would last at least 7 days and super plus tampons and a pad would not be enough. I couldn't take it any longer. I had Mirena placed April 2017 and it didn't hurt at all like some reviews suggest. I do have a high tolerance for pain but it should not be a reason not to get it. A few pinches and it's over in minutes. No cramping after either. I did spot off and on until last week wearing only panty liners (huge difference to what I was experiencing). My doctor told me give it 3 months and it should stop bleeding. I am so happy! Hope this is it for no more periods! I would definitely recommend this to anyone.
So I had Mirena implanted 3 months ago, and the implantation process was mildly uncomfortable. I don't think I was fully relaxed, but for those who've had it, it's very similar to a PAP smear process. It was quick and done with it. I immediately experienced cramps after it was implanted, (I forgot to take some Tylenol beforehand.) So far, I have been bleeding lightly most days since I had it implanted. There have been a couple days of discharge in between, but then the bleeding picks back up. I don't mind too much since I had/have a newborn to tend to. My only real negative experience is that it KILLED my sex drive. It definitely works as a birth control because I have no desire to have sex with anyone ever, which is very uncharacteristic. It's putting a mild strain on my relationship, so I will switching to something (anything) else.
I am taking Mirena for pre menopause heavy bleeding. The insertion was fine. Way less painful than my periods. The first 2-4 weeks l bled a lot. Then I had about 5 months of spotting. The last month I have had cramping and a steady flow. Still not as bad as it was before but I was told I probably would just have spotting once it was installed. I was very happy with it until this month. I hope this is a random phase.
I also wanted to be another person to help alleviate the terror after reading some other people's unfortunate reactions to the mirena. The insertion didn't hurt at all for me, I experienced no cramping, just some discomfort
The day of inserting Mirena I had no issues for the first couple hours. However, within hour 5 I have serious cramps and light bleeding. Fast forward to a week later....I am in so much pain. Medication such as Aleve and Ibprofen does not help the pain. Don't recommend this AT ALL
It was recommended that I try this IUD for my heavy bleeding by my doctor. I stopped taking the pills years ago as they would deliver side effects. When I started taking them, I would bleed for days past my normal period. Then when I got off the birth control pills, I bled for about 3 weeks straight and I finally said that this was it for the birth control pills. Within the last six months I started heavy bleeding having to go through hygiene products every two hours. I was afraid I was just going to bleed all over myself. In addition, I started breaking out with little pimples on my face and chest that were painful after having clear skin for quite a while. This was my hormones out of balance and I knew I had to do something. I had the mirena inserted earlier this month almost 4 weeks ago and it appears to be doing well. My acne has cleared up and no painful pimples this time. I think this may be a good choice for me to reverse my hormonal imbalance. I had slight bleeding after insertion and a lighter but longer period that I think may be coming into balance. But, I can say that certain birth control methods act on a persons current hormonal balance and everyone is different. Al
I begin reading reviews on Mirena two days before I received it . The insertion hurts really bad do not let plp lie to you and say it doesn't . It feels like a three really bad cramps but it goes fast so it's bareable . I have been cramping since it was inserted . I still think it's worth cramping for two days to have birth control for 5 years ! It definitely hurts but if you cramp on your period it's the same !
i got mirena about a week ago, since I've never had children it was extremely painful to have inserted. And I had to be on my period. So that made it that much more uncomfortable. and I've been on my period for about 10 days now. So even though you don't have to take a pill every day your underwear are getting ruined every day and it really sucks
After reading other women's horror stories I felt compelled to write my own review of Mirena. I am 30 years old and have a 3 year old son. My husband and I have decided to not expand our family. I set up an appointment with the NP that works in the women's health clinic I am employed at to discuss various birth control options. We decided that Mirena would be the best fit for me considering I have heavy periods that are extremely painful. She wanted to wait until I was on my menstrual cycle to insert the Mirena. I also was due for a pap smear so I scheduled both on the same day. She prescribed me 3 Cytotec pills that I took 8 hours before my appointment and I also took some Ibuprofen about 30 minutes prior to my appointment. Not going to lie I think I freaked myself out by reading too many reviews of women who experienced pain and side effects. Even a few girls in the office said it was the worst pain they have ever endured. You can imagine how I was when I showed up to my appointment. I was shaking and scared out of my mind, sure that I was about to experience the worst pain of my life. I laid down on the table and she began my pap no big deal. Then she told me she was going to be
I just wanted to add my review of the insertion process thus far. I had it inserted on Monday. Reading all of the reviews had me quite nervous about the paid associated with it. But I honestly didn't feel a thing. It hurt less than getting my Depo shot. Just VERY mild pressure in the prepping phase and I felt nothing during the actual insertion. I had to ask if she was done or not. I had mild cramping and light bleeding after from the insertion but today (Wednesday) it has all subsided. I mowed my lawn and walked my dogs in the hour following my appointment. I have had a child almost 4 year ago and I took Tylenol prior to my visit as suggested by some one here. I was on the Depo for one year prior to deciding to try the Mirena. I haven't had a period in year with the depo, so I am hoping the Mirena will just keep on up with the no period thing. I will be back to review again in few months :) but so far so good!
So I got the paragaurd, and getting it put in didnt hurt; it was just uncomfortable. After the insertion came some pretty reckless cramps. Remember, everyone is different. Dont go by all of tbe reviews. Most people only review when they have a bad experience.
I had the Mirena inserted after heavy periods. I had it put in mid April and had been bleeding for several week after. I was light headed. I had my follow up appointment with my doctor after 4 weeks and she asked if I had used any ibuprofen. I said I had not because I did not have cramps. She said in her experience the women that have had prolonged bleeding after insertion are experiencing inflammation in the uterus. She said to take 2-200mg ibuprofen every 6 hours for 5-7 days. The bleeding slowed after two days and has stopped after 7. I had read all the reviews on several web sites and was very discouraged by the prolonged bleeding. I promised myself that if had not stopped by the end of June it was coming out. Thankfully it seems to be all good now! Hope this helped someone
I went in to get a consultation to talk about getting an IUD or maybe another option that would suit me better. I really wasn't expecting them to be able to do the procedure same day. I decided to go with it in hopes that my periods would disappear and my roommate had a very good experience using it. The insertion process was extremely painful. My cervix is small or wouldn't open so they had the clamps in to open it up for almost five minutes. I never said to stop but it felt like a stabbing pain and I was asked several times if they were okay to proceed because it was taking so long. I've now heard they normally do it while you are on your period and also give a pain reliever beforehand which would have helped the process. Once it was over I had very mild cramping the rest of the day. I'm now on month 7 of using Mirena. This is obviously very effective but it came at a cost to me. For the first four months I experienced extreme mood swings, cramping like never before, and bleeding that lasts up to 3 weeks. I'm still giving it a chance because the past few months seem to have gotten a little better aside from the worst PMS I've ever experienced last month (I felt like
I've only had mirena one week (6/12/2017) so I can only comment on insertion and one week. I will pay again later for an update. I've had 2 children vaginally (2nd was no drugs and almost 10lbs). The insertion was quite painful for me and worse than a pap smear. It could be because I was expecting no pain. I thought maybe it could have been technique. I had no local and when I was asked to cough it was a searing pain. Then major cramping right after. Immediately after i had a lot of bright red bleeding. By the time I was in my car 10 mins later the cramps felt like contractions and literally came every 3-5 mins apart. I felt most of it on the left. I really thought maybe one of the arms didn't extend up all the way and was stuck down on either the wall of my uterus or it was tilted. When I got home (thought I'd pass out in the car and I have a really high pain tolerance ...or used to apparently ) I decided to do a handstand to see if gravity would being it to the top of my uterus. I also hung upside down with my body on the bed and my shoulders on the floor. Immediately the pain subsided. The rest of the evening it was just cramping and felt equal on both sides. The bleeding st
I feel like I was mislead into taking mirena. I was having month long periods due to breastfeeding and stress like heavy heavy periods for 3+ weeks at a time I would have only 1-2 weeks that I wasn't bleeding. My dr first recommended the mini pill but then said I couldn't use that because I'm breastfeeding so she suggested an iud because I told her I don't want anymore kids for the next 2 years (I have 2 boys from csection). She told me I wouldn't get my period for 5 years so I was like hells yes! But there is risks too she said more infections and it can move into your abdomen. That sounds seriously painful. I did it anyway cuz I'm sick of always bleeding. So that's basically all she told me then had me sign a waiver ... they always do that when there's a huge risk of litigation or something I feel like. Anyway I kinda wish I researched it more. The cramping almost feels like contractions and I feel nauseous and light headed. It can cause ectopic pregnancy and I guess theres strings that hang out ....lovely so now I'm stuck with this contraption in my uterus and it's supposed to cause acne which I have enough of. Stupid me made an ill informed snap decision.
35, mother of 2. Heavy,long cycles. Pain free procedure. Aware OBGYN was swabbing, measuring,inserting but no issues. Spotted for few days after. No other side effects. I would highly recommend. A bit of spotting is nothing compared to how my cycles were. Women just need to be patent and give your body a few months to adjust to hormones. Like any medication this product may not be for everyone but I do believe it has a high success rate and I will continue with it until menopause!
I had been on the pill for years but could never remember to take them. After having my first child, I decided to try the arm implant birth control. That gave me terrible acne and I gained 50 lbs in a few months. After removing the arm implant, my acne went away but I can't say the same for the weight gain. I didn't want to go back to pills so I decided to try the Mirena. The implanting of the Mirena wasn't painful at all, just felt like a mosquito bite followed by a little cramping. It took my OBGYN some time trying to actually implant it as she said my cervix was a bit tight and tilted. After leaving the doctors office, it started to spot a little and the cramps continued but still weren't bad, just a little uncomfortable. I had sex couple days after the Mirena and didn't have any issues besides spotting afterwards. My partner also stated that he did not feel the strings. I don't have a 5 day period like I use to. I literally only have some cramping around that time of month followed by light spotting for a day and that's it (probably the best part about this thing) and my skin is better than ever (no more acne!). However, after 6 months of having the Mirena, I continue to gain w
Insertion hurt pretty badly. Though I think that is different from person to person. I felt weak and sick for the rest of the day. I've had four babies, but haven't had cramps since childbirth. The cramps this thing gave me sent me to my knees. I've had the mirena for 9 months now, and I'm getting it removed. It did lighten my flow, but my cycle is now irregular, and I spot non stop. I have no sex drive, which is a pretty big deal since my husband and I enjoyed a very happy, incredibly active, sex life before the doctor popped this t-shaped sucker into me. I've always had a bit of acne, but since insertion, the acne I experience now is deep, cystic, and painful... Oh.. And EVERYWHERE. I'm getting acne in places I've never seen it before. Not sexy. Headaches are constant. It's just not worth it. To be honest, I never really wanted it. It's a hoop my doctor made me jump through. I had a very heavy flow that made me anemic, and I'm done having children. I'm 30 years old, so I was hoping sterilisation would be an option, but my doctor wouldn't allow it. He told me one day I'll wake up and randomly want to push out another freedom sucking baby. #Nothanks My youngest just started kin
I had the mirena placed may 4th 2017, it was extremely painful at insertion. I had to lay in the room for 20 minutes afterwards until the cramping got better so I could actually move. I had mild cramping for a week after placement and no bleeding. It was great, my fiancé couldn't feel it and I totally forgot it was there! Then a week ago I got SEVERE stabbing pain on my left pelvic region, so painful that I couldn't move or walk and was in tears. I ended up in the ER and after blood draws, ultrasounds and a CT scan it was determined that I have a cyst on my left ovary. While the emergency room doctor couldn't say for sure that it was caused from the IUD, he said it most likely was due to me never having any issues with pain like this or a history of cysts. I was on oxycodone for the pain and missed 5 days of work. I had a heating pad on me 24/7 and all I felt was severe pain, sharp, pinching and pressure. I went to my obgyn today to have it removed, it cramped for a second when she removed it and immediately I felt great! All that pressure and discomfort was gone immediately. I would NOT recommend getting a IUD unless you want to experience the worst pain of your life.
I got marina after my second child was born in 2009 I have had two since then I haven't had any problems with It at all my periods I haven't had since 2009 but I didn't have them really hard to get all my whole life I had recommended this to all my friends I think it works for some really well and I think others just don't stick it out long enough because it wasn't comfortable when I got it that day I went home get went to bed I could have gone to work but I did want to go to bed but nothing more than cramping some bleeding light I don't want any more kids but I also don't want that option taken away
Today is officially one month since insertion. I posted my insertion review on 05/12/2017 and at the time I loved it. I still like it as a birth control method but I was having abnormal bleeding for MONTHS at a time and it was supposed to treat that. I know it's only been a month but I've been bleeding since May 19th. Everytime I think it's going to stop, it doesn't. I know it's only one month so I'm going to give it a chance. I didn't have a bad insertion experience but for 2-2 1/2 straight weeks I had EXTREMELY bad cramping. One Aleve a day took it away for 24 hours so that was ok. I'm glad the cramping is over, I just want the bleeding to stop! Hopefully this gets better.
I'm on my 4th year with my IUD and can't wait to have it taken out. It's caused weight gain, bloating, fitigue, cramps, lower back pain, dryness, low estrogen and cyst. Wouldn't wish what I've gone through on anyone.
I have had a mirena iud for 5 years. It was uncomfortable going in, nothing horrible and I have not had children. It prevented pregnancy for all 5 years. The mirena was great until it was time for it to be removed. It is "stuck" in my uterus. My doctor was able to get the lower half of it out and I have been taking misoprostol this week to help expel the iud. If it does not come out I am scheduled for surgery removal in a couple of weeks. It is a good option for those who get migraines. The pill made me throw up almost every day. With mirena I have had a regular period all 5 years but it is lighter than when I was on the pill. My doctor said it should be okay for me to get another one although I am quite nervous about that and thinking about other options. It is rare for it to get stuck (I read 1 in 1000 on a CDC website I think).
I have had the Mirena for 5 years now. Thought I would post a review because I know people would like to know how this works years later. My period was irregular for the first months and I spotted a lot but it gor normal. For over 4 years my periods are less heavy and about 4-5 days. I get small cramps a week before my period thats how I know it's coming. And it's always on time. Every 30 days. I still spot here and tjere but not bad. And I didn't gain any noticeable weight. Overall I am satisfied and will get it again. Hope this helps.
I got mines in today june 9th 2017 It was the worse pain i was screaming during the insertion. I couldn't imagine the pain from giving birth would be like. On a scale of 1-10 during the insertion it was a 10 for about 40 seconds then the pain slowly went away after the procedure the pain was a 4....when i went home the pain is about a 2.5. Im feeling cramps and my lower back is what hurts the most.
I got the Mirena to prevent pregnancy. I had it for 7 months. During that time, I had almost nonexistent periods. I had it removed because I was suspicious that it was the case for my nonexistent libido. Within a week of having it removed, my sex drive was back. I'm now taking oral contraceptives again.
I can't attest to the long term effects, yet as I just had it inserted this morning. I wanted to review because I initially was scared away from getting Mirena because of all the bad reviews regarding the insertion. The "this is the most excruciating experience I've ever had" "they couldn't finish it was so painful" "I passed out and they had to remove it" reviews. I tried to remember that people are more likely to review from a negative experience, so maybe I was missing all the positives. Then, my co worker got hers and I had her report back to me about how everything went. She had hers inserted said it wasn't a big deal, worked out and played in a softball game later the same day. So I made my appointment. I was still very nervous, but my dr talked me through it. The pinch he said would happen when they grab hold of the cervix really didn't feel like a pinch to me, when they measured my cervix I felt one cramp and the worst of the cramping came when inserting the mirena, but that went very fast and it was no worse than cramping during my period. Afterwards, I drove 1hr & 20 minutes home and went back to work. I've had some mild cramping for the rest of the day but again, no more
I am on my 8th month of Mirena since the birth of my first child. I was on the pill for years and years and my blood pressure was higher than I liked. Now it is perfect again. I think there must be something to the cervix being stretched from childbirth because I only found slight discomfort from the insertion. I had not taken any Motrin before as suggested by my doctor, nor did I take any after. The insertion was a pretty easy experience for me. I swore I felt it for the first few months, but nothing painful. I do have to wear a pantyliner almost daily now because I never know when I may spot, but the bleeding is so light now. I was a 7 day heavy period before so this is great for me. About once a month I get some cramping, but nothing compared to the pain I had before on the pill (and off). With an infant to care for this is ideal. I don't have to worry about missing the pill or my BP going up.
I am leaving the hospital currently writing this right after my insertion. I wasn't warned about the pain, but I'm at my 6 week post partum and I had a natural birth, so my pain tolerance is 0- none. The insertion is uncomfortable not painful.. big difference !! I am experiencing no cramping or pain just a little discomfort, because after birth I was stitched up so I'm still healing from that. Overall I hope the best. I got pregnant on the pill so I wanted to try a new birth control where I don't have to put effort in since the mirena is good for 5 years !!
Iv been on Mirena for going on 4 months now after having my first boy. My periods are completely irregular. It's going on a month and I have not stopped bleeding. Iv been getting headaches and feel drained I think from the blood loss. One thing that is a plus side about it is that it's not a daily pill so you don't have to think about it. I'm just tired of bleeding so much so long.
Mirena has been a brilliant alternative to taking the pill for me. I had it inserted 4 months ago and have experienced no side effects or problems since. I love the fact that you don't even need to think about it. I am a 26 year old with no previous children, I say this as it is often recommended for people who have already had kids. I am married and I plan to stay on it for about three years. The insertation process was a lot like having a Pap smear. It did not take very long however it was very painful (9/10) for about a minute. Afterwards I experienced a lot of cramping and discomfort for the rest of the day. I feel like although it was an unpleasant experience in the long term it is totally worth it. I never had major problems with the pill either however I did experience mood swings and a low libido. I also didn't like the fact that I had to remember to take it daily and I would often fail to take it at a consistent time. Since being on Mirena I have rarely gotten my period, (it has been nice not to think about tampons!) I did occasionally have some very light spotting in the first two months. I have been meaning to write this review for a while as I have been very plea
I used the mirena for a year. That year I experienced anxiety, depression, and extreme ocd. I got it removed and all of my mental health problems vanished. This product made me feel so horrible and I didn't even know it! I thought it was just me but it was the medication I was using.
Weight gain, frequent UTi, intense food cravings. Pros- instantly lighter and less painful periods.
This post is for the insertion part of the Mirena. I just got my first IUD yesterday, Im 39 with no kids or prior pregnancies, my Dr recommended this to me due to heavy and irregular periods. Like everyone else, I had read horror stories about the pain of insertion and I freaked myself out about it which I shouldn't have. I won't lie. Insertion wasn't fun. My doctor is fantastic and she walked me through the process telling me it is a "three cramp procedure" which is absolutely true. She worked quickly and prepared me for each step. I felt nauseous, I cursed a couple of times due to the pain and I got sweaty. But, it was over in about a minute. I had taken ibuprofen an hour before my appointment and immediately after the insertion I felt totally fine. Mild cramping yesterday night and today I've had some lower back pain but nothing that Advil can't cure. Im spotting today and according to my doctor, that can happen for several weeks after insertion. For me, this has been a good experience and I'd recommend this to anyone. Here's looking forward to 5 years of easy birth control!!
Well, the reason I had the Mirena was to alleviate torrential post menopausal bleeding, which was so heavy I could barely leave the house. Not sure whether that is endometriosis but there were very few choices in the drop down list. My experience has been very positive. I had the Mirena in for 5 years and one month. I had it removed today as I'm now 55 and the Mirena had come to the end of its usefulness. The removal was not as uncomfortable as the insertion. I had no bleeding whatsoever during the five years I had the Mirena, which was wonderful. I also had no more night sweats, hot flushes or mood swings. I have put weight on, but who's to say that wouldn't have happened anyway, as I'm not now as active as I was years ago. The proof will be if I now start to lose weight under the same eating and exercise regime, but without the Mirena. Watch this space!!
*INSERTION AND DAY AFTER REVIEW* After years of trying multiple BC trying to regulate my cycles, I decided to try the Mirena. I had it placed yesterday afternoon by my ObGYN and he walked me through everything that was going to happen, swab the cervix, then measure the depth of my uterus (which to me was the worst part) and then the placement of the IUD. My pain level was probably at about a 5/6 and lasted only a few seconds. After it was complete, I layed on the table for about 5 to 10 mins and then was free to leave. During the evening hours, I would have some discomfort walking, but nothing more than regular monthly cramps. Spotting is still present since it has only been 24 hours since the procedure. Today there is not much spotting, just even to use a pantiliner and the cramps are more annoying than painful. Take 600 mgs of ibuprofen before your appointment and that will help greatly afterwards. After reading all of the negative reviews about inserting the IUD, you can get through a few seconds of discomfort for 5 years of not having to worry about taking a pill everyday.
The first time I had it put in a month later they couldn't find it had an ultrasound done still couldn't find it so I went back for seconds... after the first 3 months of bleeding every other day I started to have mood swings and lots of depression bad cramps and my eye sight has changed horribly even with my glasses on I can not see, they need to warn woman about ALL side effects if I had known I would have never tried this "drug"
I'm 30 yrs old and don't wish to have children. Since my periods are very irregular I decided to use Mirena. I just got it placed today. My HP does it while you are on your period since your cervix is a little open and that reduces the pain. There is mild discomfort with insertion similar to a pap exam. I am blessed to have very little cramps while on my period in general. But I did have mild cramps for about 1hr but some aleve and heat pad took care of that. Do feel a little bloated. Can't note on spotting since I am on my period now.
I am a 43 year old female, have had 1 child 10 years ago. My OB recommended Mirena due to skipping periods this last year for 2-3 months at a time and then sometimes getting 2 periods in 20 days. And my moods have been crazy before my period. My hormones tested normal. OB said I may possibly not bleed at all with Mirena. I have only been on Mirena 2 weeks. However I only had a huge cramp during insertion no cramps since. Bled slightly the first day. Had sex the next day it was fine. Waited to have sex 3 more days and whoooooahhhhhh it was awesome!!! It felt way better. I hope the Mirena stays in place and everything works out with it. My vagina felt stronger immediately, I was able to squeeze harder like over 10 years ago. I had more orgasms and they were harder. I'm usually pretty hydrated down there and it was slightly less, I am wondering if that is why it felt better. I'm not into birth control and I am having a fantastic experience so far. I never imagined this kind of change!
I had a Mirena inserted at the age of 45 and had it for four or five years. Insertion was extremely painful. I did experience slightly decreased sex drive. Biggest concern: it gave me fibroids.
I had my second Mirena inserted a few months ago. After having had my last one for six years (recommended for only 5). The first insertion was great. No pain, light cramp when the cervix was grabbed and then it was over. Those entire six years I had been period free. Gained no weight and it actually helped balance out my anxiety and need for prescribed anxiety meds. My second insertion was a tad diff seeing as I had the strings (on my first Mirena) trimmed way back due to my partner telling me he could feel them, therefore they couldn't grab hold and remove it. I had to go to another specialist to have him open me up and grab it. Then have him insert the new one. I absolutely love my Mirena and recommend it to every one of my friends. Still no cramping, never any spotting and I'm going on 7 years without a period. (But on my last OB visit, strings are gone again... haha)
I had this drug (it's important to note that it is a drug) inserted after my son was born. My doctor recommended it. I spent 4 months battling severe depression and mood swings. I would sob every night and didn't want to do anything. I thought I was going insane. The side effects were smothering and I knocked it up to postpartum depression for a while. Within a week of getting it removed, I was back to my normal self. When I explained my side effects to the physicians assistant who removed it, she was vaguely surprised and primarily disinterested. Think before you take any pharmaceutical and carefully note any side effects. People, including rock stars, are dying as a result of the strangle hold pharmaceutical companies have on our country today.
I haven't even had Mirena for 2 months yet and it has already came out :/..... This form of birth control is not as great as everyone makes it sound getting it is uncomfortable and you bloat.. And if you look up the possible side effects it comes out for 2 out of 3 people (this fact was found on Google) THIS IS FORSURE SOMETHING YOU DON'T NOT WANT TO RISK, IT HURTS JUST AS MUCH AS IT DID WHEN YOU GET IT..... D:
I am 26 years old I just had my 2nd child trying to be a responsible adult I decided Mirena was the best choice. BOY WAS I WRONG! I gained over 20 pounds in a 7 weeks span even with breastfeeding and eating clean. My skin dried out and anxiety got so bad I considered seeing a DR. until I started researching after a co-worker mentioned my birth control could be to blame. THANK GOD I did after reading several blogs and reviews I found most women had the same side effects as me I immediately got it removed (today) to know I wasn't going crazy and gaining weight from nowhere makes me feel so much better... please beware your Dr. will tell no side effects no matter how much you trust and love them that's not true I have a very close relationship with my Dr. and they still told me that my side effects weren't cause of the Mirena and that's just not true
This is my first time with the Mirena, so far it has been very good to me. Right after I had my daughter, I didn't want to be on birth control due to having a bad experience with the depo shot when I was 18. My partner and I decided on it since we didn't want no children for now. Anyways my experience when it got inserted was very easy and fast. They told me I could cramp for a few hours. I spotted for a few days and now it's once in a while. I've been on it for 4 months now and it's not bad. I like it. It doesn't have a lot of hormones like other birth controls out there. Like they say it is different with everyone.
So I have had the mirena IUD for about 6 weeks now and have had absolutely no issues with it, other than cramping and spotting for the first two weeks. Now, a lot of the reviews I read before getting it freaked me out and didn't give a lot of insight to their current situation so I'll give the details I would have liked to know about the women writing the reviews.. i have never had side effects from birth control before and was on the pill for over 10 years and I'm 28 with no children, that being said.. Insertion for me wasn't as bad as a lot of the reviews had made it seem.. it was about 10 seconds of intense pain (but nowhere near as bad as I thought it was going to be) and followed by constant cramps for about two days and random cramps over the first two weeks, no bleeding since then.. The cramps were no worse than my normal.. And i had been taking the BC pill that I only had 4 periods a year, so I think that's why I didn't bleed for weeks on end like some women. I would recommend going through the reviews of your current BC, that's what made me feel better about the bad mirena reviews because I hadn't experienced the bad side effects with other birth control so I figured it
I had the Mirena for 3 months. Insertion was awful. Cramping like no other. Instant bloating and feeling of an alien taking over my uterus. I became really ragey and moody. Looked 4 months pregnant. Had it removed yesterday, which didn't hurt. No joke, the bloating is already almost gone and I'm already feeling like my old me again .
*Insertion Experience Only for now* I just got the mirena today and I read so many mixed reviews that I decided everyone's experience is different. I'm 29, very overweight and have not had children but I was having spotting issues for months on end for almost 2 years and the gyno couldn't find a reason so she suggested the mirena as for a lot of people, it stops their periods eventually or lightens it. The last few years I've had light periods anyways so I'm hoping it's just going to stop it. I took an Aleve an hour before the appointment. The uncomfortable part was when she clamped the cervix and sounding the uterus (measuring) but that only lasted 10-20 seconds at most for both and then it was over and I felt normal. I used to have very heavy painful periods so I'm used to cramps and I've had stronger cramps than that procedure. I came home about 30 min later and noticed I was spotting which she said would happen. I had very minimal cramps. It's been about 5 hours since insertion and I feel pretty good. Light cramps, still spotting but so far all is good. I've never been on hormonal birth control so I'm not sure how it's going to go but I'll update how it's going if an
I had my mirena placed yesterday, 5/10 and it was a quick process. I had what felt like a period cramp as it was placed and then minimal spotting the rest of the day. Overall not very painful, didn't need any otc medicine. I'll continue to post updates.
Had the device put in 14 months ago. Have gained 14 kilos. Mood swings, stomach cramps, excessive bleeding. Other health conditions such as high blood pressure, back ache, headache and lethargy.
I have had 3 iuds and I'm getting my 4th. I did not have any problems with any of them. Little discomfort while they were being placed and abnormal periods the first few months but after that I had no period at all and suffered no other side effects. I have had 4 healthy pregnancies and babies! I definately would not go with any other birth control!
Getting the mirena inserted was fairly uncomfortable. However it took less than 10 minutes total so that was nice. I had really horrible cramps right after. Probably some of the worst I have ever had. I took otc pain Meds and by the next morning my cramps had gone away. I've had a bit of spotting in the weeks that I've had it but no full on periods and no other side effects that I've noticed.
I am a 20 year old girl that got mirena put in about 3 months ago. After I got it put in I started bleeding like I was on my period for a whole month. After that things were fine until I had sex with my boyfriend and it started smelling bad. I am a very clean person so it's not like the smell was from bad hygiene. Well I started having these weird cramps and didn't think anything of it, 3 days later the cramps got worse. I went to the ER and they removed it and tested me for infections and what not. They said my body was rejecting it, because of that it my mirena was stuck in my cervix canal and also it was infected and irritated. Two days after them taking it out I started bleeding like a very heavy period but way worse. And my pain is back. I have been bleeding so much that I fainted! I do not recommend this birth control method what so ever!!!! WORST EXPERIENCE IVE GONE THROUGH!
This review is basically about insertion process.. Since I only have had it for 3 days. Btw.. No bleeding or cramps thus far. The insertion wasnt bad at all after reading most horror stories on the internet (which isn't the best thing to do). I was in the position as if i was having a pap smear, they used same tool to open cervix also. The only discomfort was the little cramping, but that all went away in less than five minutes. It was very fast. I spotted a little the first day and these 2 days havent experienced any spotting. I feel my normal self. & hope to make another review after a several months to show the long term effects it has done on me. I'm a 23 yr old mom w 2 kids, ht 5'2 wt 110 lbs.. Unlike most reviews i'm actually hoping to gain some weight bc of the added hormones it has and also i needed to be on birth control to prevent that baby number 3 lol
Mirena was my first ever birth control. I got it October 2016. Three months later in December, I visited my doctor to remove it. He asked me to give it more time. I agreed. February 2016, Nervousness Hair loss Decreased sexual desire. I came back May 2017. They removed it. Mirena was with me 6 months. Not for me. I almost forgot how cool i am without side effects. Good thing - light periods.
My fiancé had the Mirena put in 3 months ago to prevent pregnancy. I feel compelled to share my experience; I would have liked to read a review from a male perspective to prepare myself. I was under the impression that once this little miracle is put in place you are free to have unprotected sex and there are few hormonal changes to be aware of. This is far from the truth. Although (from what I have been told) the hormonal changes are less severe than those caused by the pill, they ARE still present, and were very apparent in our case. Our relationship hit a wall as she was constantly finding new sources of "frustration." Every 10-15 days we had an argument, it was becoming exhausting. As far as preventing pregnancy goes it is very effective, because we did not have sex for the first 2.5 months it was in place due to her bleeding. I begged for it, but she was adamant that we did not have sex (for the most part) while she was bleeding. Finally, after 3 months, it seems like she is leveling off and our sex life is back on track. The Mirena is effective, easy for her to maintain, and does its job well. BUT, I wish someone had told me what I needed to know about this beforehand. In the
This review is for insertion only. You read so many horror stories about the level of pain but, for me, the procedure literally took 3 minutes and was less painful than a pap-smear. Easy breezy and very fast! Very mild cramping after but was able to go about my day as usual.
I'm a 23 year old with no children. I got my mirena inserted two weeks ago, so I can't comment on the long term effects. I have a mood disorder so I can't take the pill because of the hormones (the mirena only uses localized hormones so it's okay). I liked the idea of the mirena because you don't have to do anything like remembering to take the pill & it was free with my insurance. It's also apparently incredibly effective (comparable to getting your tubes tied). But, I read lots of reviews and the negative ones claiming that it was incredibly painful really freaked my out. I also read a couple horror stories about very rare complications. It wasn't until a couple friends of mine got the mirena put in that I decided to get it. My friends both hated it at first (one passed out from the pain of the insertion and they both had cramping and didn't feel well for the first month of having it put in) but after about a month passed they both raved about how much they loved it and how worth it it was. One friend took it for contraception and the other got it to help with painful periods. I talked with my doctor who told me that the pain really isn't too bad (she had one) and said complicati
I just have my mirena put in two days ago. It works amazing. I have been bleeding for two month and none of other drugs worked. My doctor finally decides to put this mirena in me, and it just works magical. My bleeding stops after two days and I feel I am finally health 1st time in two month. I do get little spotting and cramping in theses two days. I take Motrin and use hot pad, rest, drinking a lot of warm water. Today I weak up feel great. Of course, I only have it for two days, cannot say more. But,so far so good. The insertion procedure is not that painful, I can manage it. Overall, this is very good stuff.
I heard so many horror stories about how painful the iud is, that I spent the entire week in a blind panic. Full disclosure, I took tramadol and Xanax before coming to the appointment. The worst part of the procedure were my panic attacks (despite Xanax). Apparently tramadol doesn't help much with cramping. The speculum was difficult for me mostly because of my panicking. The insertion itself felt like practically nothing. Like w weird magician pulling a small ribbon out of my vagina. It should be noted, I have an EXTREMELY LOW tolerance fore pain. I scream and cry at Pap smears, I cried and screamed and cursed when I got my stitches taken out, I collapse on the floor and weep when I burn myself cooking, but this was really, truly nothing. Afterwards I had a small amount of cramping for a few hours, like the kind of framing where you're either nervousness or you might have to poop. I've noticed no side effects except that it makes me crave fruit and vegetables. (Which is the best side effect ever imho). I'm in love and everything about this appointment was perfectly fine except my Own anxiety. 10/10 recommend.
Got the Mirena placed in me after having my third child. The procedure was fast a little bit of discomfort. Cramped once I got it and bled for 3 months off and on. My sex life is wonderful since I don't have to worry about kids. Everybody body is different. A lot of people told me not to get it but I have had no problems besides mild cramping at times. I go get it checked every two months.
I am so glad I decided against this and thank u all for your stories. I have talked to people from all walks of life, I work in health care, today I spoke with two people who have iud mirena and have had cardiac events, migraines and huge weight gain, I am stating my decision to not put any hormones in my body, I had the Nuvaring and stopped due to heart racing and other side effects. I am done with hormones. I may try the Daysy or rhythm method my fiancé and I don't want children but I am also trying to stay healthy. My advice is trust your gut, if it seems wrong DON'T.
I have a 2 month old baby boy and 18 month old girl. At first I though mirena was going to be the best thing for me, specially because of the easyness it is to manage, because you put it and forget it for about 5 years. Looked amazing. I put it on this monday, 4/24. When put, i felt dizzy and thought I was going to pass out, even though I did not had bad cramps at all, I thought it would be worst. Second day I felt different, no cramps. Third day I felt absolutelly out of myself, mood changes, palpitations, shortness of breath, and I felt VERY BAD!!!! I was not loving my family that day. I felt like I was not myself at all! And I was not. I read some reviews and they confirmed my symptoms. I could not sleep at all the night from yesterday 26th. I had to stop buy the hospitsl that night because feelind very bad!! But they did not take it out, unfortunatelly! Everything was fine about my vitals, and blood and thireoid. The nurse told me she had a high believe it was the mirena. Decided to take it off me as soon as possible!!!! Called the doctor thar morning and they told me I would probably feel better with it on month 3, because the body was going to get used to it! But, really
I had the Mirena IUD inserted on 4/14/17, hoping that it would help with my painful periods. Insertion was very painful. 5 days later I started with bad nausea, light headed and dizzy, and BP spiking high (140/100). Nausea was so bad that I lost 8lbs. Called the doctor and asked for it to be removed. Had it removed 4/25/17 only 11 days after it was put in. Doctor tried to tell me that the symptoms I had were not from the IUD. But I did not have these issues prior. Within hours of it being taken out the nausea went away. BP is still elevated but not as high as it was. The medicine goes though the liver so it may take a few days for it to all leave my system and for me to be back to normal. I would not recommend this to anyone even though I know everyone is different.
This medication made my face get more acne than the one I already had. my condition has improved but not as much as I thought. I would not recommend this medication to anyone.
Still not sure about this method yet. I had the IUD Mirena placed inside of me in March of 2017. I chose this method because I had severe bleeding and it was making me anemic. I got my period right after and it seemed pretty normal. In April I got my 2nd period since insertion and the first 3 days (which used to be awful) I had only light bleeding and not much cramping. That ended on day 4 when I was bleeding heavier but still not as heavy as previous cycles. I have been bleeding for 3 weeks now. Sometimes I need a tampon and sometimes just a light pad. I will say that I am crampy quite a bit each day but it goes away. I came to this site to see what peoples experiences were and I'm glad I did. I will continue to monitor but I have really high hopes for this drug.
I would not recommend this product. I have been using it for 10 months now, and continue to need feminine hygiene products almost every day. Out of the last 300 days, I have needed to utilize tampons or liners for at least 250 of them. There are also more mild side effects, like acne, mild cramps, mood changes, etc. It has prevented a pregnancy, but not worth all the issues. I will be having it removed, hoping and praying it's where it's supposed to be....
I am using Mirena as HRT. To begin with I experienced headaches and vivid dreams (first couple of months) but am now free of these side effects. Almost as soon as I had the device fitted the symptoms of IBS which I had experienced for about 15 years previously disappeared :O) - don't know why, but am happy that they did!
This is my 2nd IUD. I had the last one 5 years & removed (which didn't hurt at all) and got pregnant 6 months later. I am now 11 weeks postpartum and just had my 2nd IUD placed. You always read the "bad" never the good. I love having the IUD. While placed it was a little painful, nothing major though. It feels like a little pinch & a cramp then it's all over! It's totally worth not having to remember to take a pill or get the shot! I didn't have a cycle with my last one & hoping for the same this round!!
I got Mirena IUD in December 2014 when my one and only son was 1. The first year I had no problems and I have had it for a little bit over 2 years. The past year I have been experiencing cramping but no physically period, fatigue and even pelvic pain. Usually it is moderately uncomfortable but one night I felt like I wanted to give birth. I like how easy it is since I don't worry about taking one every day and I like not having to worry about my period. I hate the cramping and pelvic pain. I went to the doctor and it is in the right place. I have no other health issues. I'm on the fence about switching it or not. Everyone is different but this has been my experience with it.
I have had mirena for about 10 months and have been trying to get it taken out but the dr can't find the strings I today I went for an ultrasound and it seems to be in the right place but to get it out I will have to go get an anesthesia so that my Dr can use a tool (she says looks like a crochet hook) to blindly try and get the strings at my next appt since they can't see them.... I am very unimpressed. Reasons for wanting it out is j almost immediately noticed my mood becoming depressed and sad which I am not usually. Acne like I've never had before. Bloating..boobs have grown 2 sizes in the last week which made me think I was pregnant but the text came back negative. And the list goes on and on. Personally I would not recommend this bc no matter how convenient it is. The other side effects make it not worth it!
I am currently in the hospital writing this because of the Mirena. I am 29 years old and 5 months ago just had my fourth child. I opted for the mirena because 5 years sounds lovely to me to not have to worry about having kids. I got the iud in December 2016 and started feeling a lot of pain and hurting in March 2017. What I thought was a period for 5 days went off for a week and came back on! Then went off for another week and came back on for 5 more days. All in one month!! I went to the er because of all the pain I was having when I walked, laid down, had sex, did anything and I was in pain. Thank god I went to the er because my iud was no longer in my uterus. It had migrated outside the uterus somehow and is not floating around my body. The X-ray shows the mirena is still there but not where it is. I got to the hospital Thursday morning and I'm leaving tomorrow, Saturday morning. And No...the iud is still in me!!! Not only could my Dr not find it when she made incisions on my stomach and my csection scar, but I also have to wait another two weeks to get another surgery somewhere else farther out. Please don't get the mirena! Let's stand up women. Let's not insert foreign objects
For the past 10 years I have suffered monthly from endometriosis. I have tried oral contraceptives, the depo shot, and everything else. Mirena IUD was my last chance. Because pelvic exams are difficult for me, my OBGYN and I decided to do a herterscopy while under anesthesia while also inserting the IUD. So the procedure was painless for me. However, I have been bleeding non-stop since surgery. Not as heavy as before. But bleeding all the same. I also experience cramping for 5-10 minutes daily. Is this a normal side effect? I don't know. My sexual drive is non existent. I went to my doctor, she said give it 6 months. It's been two months and I don't know if this is normal.
I've only had Mirena for a few hours, but I wanted to share about the insertion process. Not nearly as bad as I anticipated. I'm 22 with one kid, he was an emergency c-section but my cervix had already fully dilated. The process was slightly uncomfortable; the "pinch" wasn't all that bad, the only cramping I experienced during the procedure was when the device was inserted, and my cervix has always been a little sensitive so it bled a bit from the pinch but stopped quickly. The whole thing was over in less than 5 minutes. I had moderate cramping for about an hour after insertion, which subsided slightly and I've been having light cramps on and off since then (~4 hours). Took one regular strength Tylenol about an hour ago. I'm feeling a little sluggish and nauseous, but I'm also on my period which I'm sure doesn't help. Get the procedure done by a knowledgeable OB that makes you feel comfortable, and maybe take pain meds before you get it done. I read many of the Mirena horror stories and have been pleasantly surprised so far. I'll leave another review in a few months!
Mirena has been amazing! I've been on it for over a Year now and it has been awesome. When first getting it put in the procedure was somewhatpainful but was over in about 5 minuetes, Had light cramping for a few weeks. But after a month my body ajusted. My periods have actually completely stopped. I dont bleed at all now, which to me is sometime a little scary but also amazing to not have to deal with it. when I do have cramps their about the same pain amount but for much shorter periods of time. sexlife is completly unaffected -> string doesn't bother him at all. I also just have to do a monthly string check which is easy. Overall, I have really loved having it, im not overly hormonal because the low doses and honestly its like being a kid again with no period. I can just go out and enjoy life and not have to worry. Have pills for occasional cramps.really really love this product.The only negative is the lack of period plus my paranoid brain does make me anxious about the low chances of getting pregnant on mirena (I have read some horror stories on the internet) but have talked with several doctors and my worries have been calmed.
Having taken no drugs since my early 20s I was not prepared for how I felt after insertion which in itself, did not hurt at all. I felt drugged, sluggish, unresponsive and out of it completely by the time I got back to work, worst mistake ever! I recommend going straight home and to bed. Three years in, NO problems - period so light it is barely there and absolute heaven compared to my 8 day blood war. If I need another IUD after turning 50 in two years, I will definitely take it because it has changed my life.
I was very skeptical about the Mirena the week leading up to the procedure. Inserting it was by far the worst pain I've experienced . Mind you I been on the depo shot for 7 years and have never had kids .. so I have not experienced the "cramping" feeling. So it could be to bad at all but to me the insertion was terrible. The rest of my day was shot I layed in bed with a heating pad cause of cramps . Woke up the following day and almost forgot it was even there. It's been two weeks and I only had a couple cramps here and there the first couple days.
I was tired of taking the pill (since 16 yrs old I've been on the pill off and on) and I decide to have the Mirena IUD inserted on 4/7/17. My appointment was scheduled for 3pm and I took the rest of the day off. I took 3 advil before my appt. I trust my OB-GYN very much and he's very knowledgeable so we spoke about everything beforehand. My doctor would only do the procedure while I was on my period (to make sure I was not pregnant), during the procedure it wasn't that bad, but it did hurt! Maybe 5 minutes of pain (not sure how much the advil beforehand helped). I'm 29 years old with no children so my cervix didn't quite cooperate, but it was over rather quickly. If you can just breathe through the pain for 5 minutes you should be fine. After the procedure my doctor told me to lay on my side for awhile with my knees to my chest to ease some of the pain, this really helped! After about 10 minutes or so he came back in to check on me and we spoke about any major side effects then I went on with my day. I had minor cramps and maybe a couple of shooting bad cramps that came out of no where that same day. I'm still spotting a little but nothing major, hopefully that will go away with
I just had my IUD put in today at 7 weeks post partum. I made the conscious decision for myself to get the IUD instead of taking the mini pill or getting the depo shot because I like that it is good for 5 years, I can still breastfeed with it, and I don't have to remember to take the pill everyday. Insertion wasn't that bad, I definitley set myself up for a lot worse. It is like a cramp but not a horrible one. If you breathe slowly while your getting it it's not that bad. I'll review again later in a few months on how it's going but so far so good. I just hated that before I went I read all he horrible reviews of how aweful and painful it was. It's most definitley tolerable, but everyone has there own experience and pain tolerance.
I just had my fourth one put in yesterday. I haven't had a period in about 10-13 years. I still had a mild one with the first Mirena I had, but eventually they stopped. I have had two children and I decided on getting the Mirena after I had them, for birth control and also I was having irregular bleeding for no reason between periods, and the pill wasn't working for me anymore. I get no periods, no side effects of a period, and have no idea it's even in there other than when I check for the strings. My partner has never complained of feeling the strings. I do see my OB/GYN for the procedure, as he is very good at doing this. I would highly recommend this for anyone who doesn't want to get pregnant, or just doesn't want a period. My doctor highly recommends it. It does hurt a bit going in, but the old one coming out doesn't hurt really at all. The insertion felt like a mild contraction almost and I had mild cramping for about 30-60minutes after the insertion and some bleeding but it stopped within that time frame. It's the perfect birth control for me, but the biggest thing is NO MORE PERIODS!!! And my insurance covers it 100%. It's a win-win!
I can't say anything for the effectiveness of the mirena IUD, all I can say is that the procedure to have it inserted was so painful that I couldn't even get the darn thing inserted. I highly recommend you ask your ob for anesthetic because the pain was unbearable, worse than any tattoo or broken bone I've ever gotten. I was in so much pain that it was my Ob's idea to stop.
I am using the mirena IUD for severe period pain, heavy period, multiple fibroids and birth control. The only thing I didn't like was the 380.00 dollars I had to pay for it as it was not covered under my drug plan. Surprisingly, I did not have any discomforts during the procedure. It was pain free and I did not even realize when it was over. Did not take any pain meds....what can I say, it helps to have an experienced physician to do the procedure as this makes a lot of difference in your overall experience.
Thinking about getting it out. I have had it in for 7 months now and hate it. Have had my preiod literally every day for the last 7 months except maybe three days out of the month. Talk to a nurse said it can take longer the six months to make things go back to normal. Has any one had this problem too? Does it get better?
I have had the mirena for 2 years going on 3. I had it put in place afte I had my son yes it's uncomfortable to get inserted but after about a week you go back to regular! Ive have had no problems. I have a period every month still though. I love it! It does it's job that's for sure!
I got my Mirena IUD inserted 2 days ago and after reading all of the negative reviews, I was expecting the worst. However, I was pleasantly surprised that the insertion was not nearly as painful as a lot of people have described it. However, I am used to painful cramps since my periods are quite heavy and last a whole week. If you are considering not getting the Mirena just because of the insertion process, please reconsider! The whole process was foreign to me since I've never even had a pap smear, nor have I given birth - I had never even been in the stirrups before! The procedure was VERY quick! They measure your uterus first, to make sure that you are a suitable candidate for the procedure. Then, they clean your cervix with an anti-septic and insert the actual device. The lady that did mine told me when I was going to feel each cramp, and no the cramps weren't fun BUT they only lasted for about 5 seconds each. I was fine for about 2 hours after the procedure and then I finally started to feel cramping. I had a heating pad on my back and my tummy, and took a lot of Aleve to make the pain die down. The cramps were slightly better the second day, and now I'm on the third day with
I had Mirena inserted yesterday. I read a lot of negative reviews and I think people are compelled to review something when they've had a negative experience. I am 42 and had a child 2 years ago and wanted birth control which would not contain estrogen. My doctor explained every side effect and how Mirena works so I felt very informed. Most reassuring was that she had inserted over 10k and has one inserted herself. I would agree that the discomfort is about a 5/10 in that you feel 3 sharp period cramps in a row because the cervix is opening similar to when you have a bad period. In about 5 minutes the procedure was complete. Have a nurse hold your hand and have the dr explain everything that is happening. I took 4 Advil when I got home and I have had very mild spotting. you will need to go back for a follow up in 2 weeks and then again in a month to have an ultrasound to ensure the unit is in place. I know some of the reviews are scary but the truth is the experience for millions of women is a positive one.
I had the Mirena put in yesterday at 10am after having the Nexplanon removed. Let me just start by, if you are going to get this and have never had a child TAKE TYLENOL! When I tell you this was by far the worst experience of cramping that I have ever felt! I literally threw up 5 minutes after insertion (hadn't even got a chance to change back into my clothes). I immediately felt the pain when my OBGYN was inserting the IUD as well as feeling nauseous. I was told because I have never had a child it was hard for her to insert the IUD because my cervix has never been dilated. You all I didn't even make it out of the hospital, I was that nauseas! I threw up a total of 6 times with diarrhea. The pain was so unbearable to the point where I couldn't find a comfortable way to sit, I could barely walk down to the ER! I tried to take a tylenol after insertion, however I was so nauseous that I couldn't keep anything down. So the ER was the only way to tame the monster cramps. They ended up giving me an UltraSound to see if it was placed properly as well as some Zofran and a shot of Toradol because from throwing up I had gotten so dehydrated my veins were flat. It is now the day after, and I
I am currently writing this review from my hospital bed. I had the iud placed yesterday at 1030 and the insertion was painful because my cervix was not dilated but it was not unbearable. The doctor had to clamp my cervix so it would not move this is where it began! She placed the iud and removed the clamp from my cervix and it started bleeding she put silver nitrate on it 4 times to stop the bleeding and she said I see your a bleeder I said yes every time they have done a biopsy they have difficulty stopping the blood flow. Well on the 4th time putting it on my cervix she said oh well that should be good. Well it wasn't! I bled heavily soaking a pad ever 20 minutes with half dollar size clots. I went to the er at 7pm that evening and they couldn't stop the bleeding and was concerned with how much blood I lost so they transferred me by ambulance to a different hospital. Needless to say after discussing admission and surgery they finally stopped the bleeding after 4 sutures. It's now 7am and I'm waiting for discharge. I think iud would have been great but I'm definitely not going to have it placed back in after going through this. I'm now considering the arm implant for birth
I am 21 and was on the pill for about a year before switching to Mirena. I chose it because it has such a low dose of hormones and seems like a healthier way to do birth control. The insertion was painful but only very briefly, and the only pain I've experienced since was uterus discomfort for a few days following the insertion and some cramping after hard workouts. I had it inserted two and a half months ago and my husband has only felt the string once during sex. I think this is a great option for women like me who have not had kids and are not planning on it for a while.
I had my mirena put in probably 6 hours ago. I used to have a nexplanon in my arm and I experienced a period/spotting that lasted the whole time I had it. Got it taken out, took the pill for a while but I was too inconsistent. Getting the Mirena in HURT! It was on the verge of unbearable for me, I think mainly because it's in such a sensitive place. I felt 3-5 pulls while it was inserted. It felt like my OBGYN was recreating some of the worst cramps I've ever had and then twisting it and making it 10x worse. The cramping feeling subsided after she was done but I have been having mild cramping and bleeding all day. The whole thing last 5 min but the really painful part lasted less than 2 minutes. ( I was spotting before I went in and had very mild cramps so I'm not sure if it's related) hoping that this is better for me than the nexplanon! Hope my review helps!
I got my Mirena removed today after 6 months with it. I should preface this with I have a very low pain tolerance. The insertion was terrible for me, and was pretty darn crampy for the following week. After the first few weeks, the pain and bloating got much better, but I'd had pretty much constant abdominal pain since insertion. Severity ranging from mild to moderate. I got about 3 ovarian cysts in that time, one of them rupturing. In the 6 years I was on the pill I had only gotten 1, and thats because I was misusing it. I feel for me, personally, I had the constant abdominal pain because I also have a tense pelvic floor (which I'm going to PT for) and I feel my pelvic floor muscles just didn't take too well to having a foreign object in there to squeeze. I also kept getting BV, which I'd never had before. I've read other stories of women who kept getting BV and yeast infections with an IUD. I think this method can be great for some people, it just didn't quite work for my body. But just because it wasn't right for me, doesn't mean it's a terrible contraceptive all around. Everyone is different.
I'm 24, I don't have kids and I've never been pregnant. I've been with my boyfriend for 8 years, and kids just are not in our near future. I have been on the pill since I was 14 and just recently we wanted to try something long term. I got the Mirena put in 2 days ago. I was nervous and so scared because of all the bad reviews I read about it before I went to have it put in. While getting the Mirena put in there were 3 cramps, each cramp were worse than the other but none were unbearable. Once the Mirena was put in, they did an ultra sound to be sure that it was in place and my doctor said everything looked great. I went back to work after I got it put in, I was tired and a little uncomfortable for the rest of the day. I went home and slept for most of the afternoon. Yesterday was by far the hardest day, I had cramps on and off, I was dizzy, and I was spotting on and off. But, none of this was super painful. My boyfriend and I had sex last night, my doctor told us to use condoms for the first month because the strings will be scratchy for a little bit. We used a condom and he could only feel the strings in certain positions. Sex was not painful and I did not bleed bad
It's been three days since I had it inserted and I am still taking pain killers for the pain in my pelvic area. The insertion was painful enough but now having to deal with the discomfort of ongoing pain is disheartening. I may have to go to my doctor and have it removed.
I've had this in me for almost 9 months now and nothing has gotten better. I still have crazy cramps on and off for 2 weeks. Then my period is incredibly spotty and unpredictable. I was on the depo shot for 3 years before switching to Mirena and never had my period or any significant issues. On the mirena I've had several of the listed side effects and it's begun to seriously effect my life and relationship. I have an appointment to see a doctor and get this taken out. Not only have I had such a negative experience, 2 of my sister-in-laws have gotten pregnant while using this method, and one of them almost died during childbirth because it wound up in her intestines. No thank you!
***Insertion Review Only*** I went to my obgyn to get it inserted well my cervix wouldn't dialet so they try to injection it to open. Was suppose to take only 2 or 3 times well... it took way more than that. My cervix was stubborn. It hurt like hell!!! I cried so hard my husband felt so bad for me. I tried to tell them to keep going but it hurt so bad, i cried so much and i was moving around the dr couldn't do it. The dr said I could come back when they had an Anesthesiologist In the office but my husband says he doesn't wanna see me in that much pain ever again. (Ha wait till childbirth) lol guess who's getting an epidural when she's having a baby? Me! Lol guess I'm gonna try the Nuva ring for now maybe in the future I will be able to do the iud
I actually just got the Mirena inserted about 4 hours ago. I am reviewing the actual insertion of it. Reading some of the reviews actually made me a little freaked out about the pain. While the doctor did offer to inject my cervix with lidocaine, I declined due to my fear of needles and the fact that I would feel 4 pinches instead of one tug. The process wasn't as painful as I expected it to be, although it was still painful. As some women have said, it feels like you're getting cramps, but you get used to it after a minute. The whole process lasted about 6 minutes. When the doctor removed all the tools, a gush of blood came out which is perfectly normal, I was surprised at how much came out. Afterwards, I felt no pain, it was just during the process. I still feel no pain and if it wasn't for the fact that I'm still spotting, I would've forgotten I had it inserted. Honestly, I prefer those 5 minutes of slight discomfort to giving birth.
I literally 30 minutes ago had it put in. It was painful! Not for very long it took about 5 mins to insert but it was very very painful for me. I screamed and started crying. I will say that I am only experiencing moderate cramping not so that's s plus
I have had the mirena for 2 weeks. The first day was unbearable. It is now day 12, and I feel like I'm dying. I went to the doctors, and she said she can't find the strings. Now I have an ASAP ultrasound to see if it has shifted. I've had a miscarriage before, and I can tell you right now this IUD has given more painful cramping than an actual miscarriage. The only reason I don't recommend this is because you honestly don't know what is going to happen or if your body is not going to be compatible. I don't with this pain upon anyone. Two weeks straight of cramping gets extremely frustrating.....
I had the Mirena for three years. I will say I liked the convenience of not having to take a pill everyday but the side effects were too much for me. I had three ovarian cysts while I had it in. Each erupted which resulted in additional doctors appointments. The eruptions were beyond painful. One night I just curled up on the floor and cried all night. My doctor tried to tell me it was the more a but I never had these issues before. I got it removed! It's been out for almost two years now and I haven't had one cyst.
I had the mirena placed in 5 weeks after I had my baby! It was easy and didn't hurt at all! The first to months I bleed a lot and then it stopped! I haven't had a need for a tampon since last July (2016) I absolutely love my mirena! It was the best decision I've made for birth control!
***Insertion Review Only*** I had Mirena inserted this morning. I was extremely nervous after reading online reviews. But the procedure was simple and quick, much like getting a Pap smear. Slight uncomfortable like any type of pelvic exam, but I didn't feel any pain, some mild cramping and a little pressure and that was it.
Ive had headaches,cramping, sharp shooting pains, hot flashes, mood swings, depression, ive also GAINED 46 POUNDS!! I went from 128 too 174 since its been put it. Plus bleeding since insertion which has been 4 months so far.
I've had he mirena in for over 3 years. I've had multiple symptoms the first being rapid hair loss then lumps in my breast, extreme body odour, lowered libido and not to mention it really hurt being inserted. Lastly it did not do its job by preventing pregnancy, I fell pregnant with it still in place properly. I feel very disappointed and let down!!!! Now I have to go get it removed which i am really scared of.
I Finally got the Mirena! I'm 20, 5'0, 105lbs with no children. So... YES, it hurt, but NO, it wasn't unbearable. Long story short, if you have a small cervix (mine was 7mm, 6mm is the minimum size) that has never been touched, forcing a foreign object up there is going to hurt. I took a Percocet 45 mins before my appointment but I don't think it did much for the pain. I asked my doc about a cervical block, but she said that it would actually hurt worse and take longer and that it's mostly used by less experienced doctors. She said while prepping me that I should've been given misoprostol the night before but 'oh well, we'll try our best' (not scary at all right before insertion..) But honestly, the actual insertion was literally just a bad cramp. Not a stab, not a pinch; it was an honest-to-goodness bad cramp for maybe 6 long seconds. My tattoos were way worse. I don't have crazy painful periods, and I've had worse cramps on a normal period day. I tensed up for a bit thinking 'oooookay bad cramp ow..' and then it was over. The only part that I really didn't like was that I was still in moderate pain after it was over and didn't want to get dressed/move in general despite my doctor
I had been suffering from heavy periods for years, my gyno suggested the Mirena after I went to her with 2-3 week long heavy periods for 4 months, I'm kicking myself for not going to her sooner. I absolutely love my Mirena, I spotted a few days after insertion and that was the last real period I've had. I'm going on a year now since I've had the Mirena & I highly recommend it. Gone are the days of debilitating cramps and staying at home almost wearing a diaper due to heavy flow. I have not had any side effects at all. Give it a try.
I got the Mirena 3 months ago. The insertion was much more painful than I anticipated, even after waiting for half an hour afterwards I was still too dizzy and hurting to drive myself 10 minutes home! It was for sure not easy, but my doctor said that the process it is much more pleasant for people who have given birth before. Anyway, I had severe cramps for about three hours after the insertion, but I felt nothing the day after and have felt no pain since. During what would have been my first period after the insertion I lightly spotted for two days, but besides that I have experienced no bleeding at all and no side effects that I have noticed. I am studying abroad this semester and traveling a lot and it is so nice to not have to worry about my period or remember to take the pill everyday. I also used to get really bad mood swings during PMS but that completely went away. All bodies are different but I'm so glad I took the leap of faith with an IUD- I'll never go back to any other form of birth control. I recommend trying it out- it's kind of a high risk/high reward situation, but if worst comes to worst you can just have it removed.
This rating is for INSERTION ONLY - I will write a review later on once I've had a chance to have it in a while. I read all the horror stories about insertion, and from what my doctor said, those cases of people experiencing agonizing pain are pretty rare. I had 3 cramps throughout my Mirena insertion and that was it. The anticipation was the worst part. I was on my period when I had it put in, and I had worse period cramps the day before my insertion than the actual insertion itself. If the fear of insertion is what is stopping you, then I would recommend getting the Mirena.
I used Mirena for 10 months,and was terrible.After insertion, I had terrible pain,for 2 weeks,and bleeding heavy for almost 1 month.After that every month I had 10 days at least, bleeding,depression,I felt tired,with no power and mood ,so I removed it yesterday.
I LOVE IT I got it inserted last year and I didn't feel anything but slight pressure when and I was dizzy afterward but so far its been good still regular periods with not too many emo issues
People told me getting Mirena inserted would be painful, and it was. No need to go more in depth with that because that was not the issue. I had it put in and all was fine, until during intercourse my partner and I both smelt an awful odor. Turns out I had BV. Went to the doctor, got antibiotics and maybe a month later the same thing happened. I'm not someone that wants to be treated for my symptoms, I want the problem to stop. Then I got MULTIPLE yeast infections. Then UTI's. I had enough. I got Mirena out and had one more UTI about a month after getting it out, but ever since I've experience no BV, UTI's, or yeast infections! I don't know what the problem was but I'm happy to be done with that experience.
DO NOT GET MIRENA IUD!!! Yes it's the most convenient birth control, but after 3 years of being on it I got pregnant while on the IUD and I had to get my Fallopian tube removed!!!!
The insertion hurt unlike anything I have ever experienced. It felt like a knife was being passed through my cervix. Afterwards I was lightheaded and sweaty and severely umcomfortable. The pain went away after about half an hour, and the rest of the day i was just crampy. If you can get past the insertion, it's the greatest thing ever!
I had Mirena put in at age 21. I've never had kids. Previously, I was taking Seaonsale due to bad periods. After getting the Mirena put in, I had mild cramps for a few days. I've had the Mirena for 12 and have not had any cramps or spotting. It is so easy, and very comforting that I will never miss a beat with the Mirena. I highly recommend it.
I had the Mirena for two months. I was experiencing very heavy bleeding for the entire 2 months. I was bleeding so heavy to the point where I would get light headed. I went to to the doctor to have it removed because I just couldn't take the bleeding anymore. Come to find out the iud was never inserted correctly! My doctor said I was bleeding so much it looked like I was having a miscarriage!! I took it out and I feel so much better! Unwound NOT recommend it at all! Look into another form of birth control.
Mirena should be illegal, it's side effects are far more than listed, my first two years were great, but the next year my libido died, then I had depression worse than ever, emotional detachment from my newly wed husband, terrible vaginal discharge, painful sex, the list goes on and on, IT NEARLY COST ME MY HUSBAND, thyroid problems, I knew something was wrong, and couldn't figure it out, thought it was possibly from Zoloft, nope, had my mirena removed and 5 days later my two year nightmare was over, I feel Like a woman again, BEWARE of mirena
The best decision I made with low risk, I never have to worry about if I'm pregnant unless it's that time, which it's not. No weightgain, 2-3 day sporadic periods. It comes one day and the Twoslater it comes. My only problem if that I get hella angry for no go reason, and then the period starts the next. I should start memorizing the dates better.but live/work with other women, that's where have the #problem All in all it's the best.
OKAY LADIES!!! Insertation is not bad at all. I'm 16, never had a child and have been on the pill of a year. I was so scared going into it that the fear was far greater than the pain. I can honestly say that any pain talked about last for 1 second twice. So all in all 2 seconds of pain!!!! To be honest I was more worried about farting on the doctor, it's been 4 hours of having it it and I have zero side effects! No cramping at all !!! I'm so excited now for the next 5 years with my mirena IUD!
I had mirena inserted for heavy bleeding perimenopausal. Didnt feel anything on insertion. Sone spotting light bleeding for a about 6months then nothing. Put on a lot of weight but dont know if thats because of mirena or menopause, insulin use or eating too much.
I have had the Mirena IUD for 3 years, got it inserted in April of 2015. Visited the doctor couple of times due to side abdominal pain the IUD was causing me. Pain was bearable just very uncomfortable. They would always say nothing is wrong with the IUD, string is visible and everything is normal. Also never got my period or spotting since insertion. Mirena was mainly good for me due to easy care and no periods, though I did get some cramping here and there especially during and after sex. Heating pads and hot showers always did the trick. In Mid February 2017 the week before Valentines Day I started spotting which was very unusual since I've never gotten my period while on the IUD and I had horrible lower back pain. Finally stopped spotting the day after Valetines Day only because I got the IUD removed. I never got a pregnancy test before they removed the IUD. After the IUD removal I had unprotected sex and took the day after pill. A week and a half later on the 26th I had to go to the emergency room, I was experiencing so much pain on my right abdomen, so painful I was having cold sweats and face was so pale. I ended up testing positive for pregnancy through my pee and that it
Literally the most painful thing I've ever experienced. Did not even successfully insert it. That's it...I'm getting tubal ligation.
When I got the IUD I was having a lot of bleeding, cramps, and I passed out from the pain. I have been on it for about two years now I went from 160lbs to 220lbs there has been no change in my diet or exercise regimen. I am extremely moody before my periods I get very mad at the world and cry a whole lot, which is very unlike me. My periods are extremely irregular either I don't get the or I get the for 3 weeks. My hairs has thinned out a lot. And my acne is out of control. I do not suggest taking MIrena I am very unhappy with how extreme the side effects were for me. But hey I'm no pregnant partly because I bleed after inter course.
Had it inserted for heavy bleeding after my third child. All straight forward with insertion and the bleeding has become normal to light each month in the 5 months since procedure. But the side effects are very real. Weight gain across my middle section and the acne - all when I'm about to turn 40. Am looking into whether there are other options for the bleeding issues I had (other than mirena) but looks like I may need to stick it out. And go on a diet. And see a dermatologist...
Today i got the mirena iud inserted and videos do it no justice it was so very simple very little pain (ive had 4 boys and my last son was a stillborn)it was over before i knew it... it was like a pap smear but with a little more....pressure a some minimal cramping but the crampy didnt last long i took two 800 mg ibu's before the procedure and im 5.5 hrs after the procedure and ive had very little spotting and very little cramping the cramping didnt last long(but i fell asleep for a bit lol) i had really quick sharp pains right above my knee on the side it...it wasnt a bad pain like a quick shock....idk if that was associated with the mirena but it happened after i got the mirena iud so im including it lol so im liking it so far i have to gp bk in a week to get it check to make sure positioning is still okay so i will try to remeber to give a update
I have had Mirena in for 1.5 years now, and this is a mixed review for me. Note: I have had two Paragard IUD's in before Mirena because I don't like taking any hormones. First off most my friends recommended I get it out almost immediately after telling them I got it in. Three of our friends got pregnant on Mirena and all suffered from severe weight gain. I was educated later that majority of pregnancies on IUD's is either from improper insertion or because it has shifted. The weight gain I wasn't really concerned about because it's never been an issue before so I left it in. At first really all I had to complain about was some acne issue like boils,but I got with Paragard as well, so it was 'meh' to me. I also had to deal with medium to light flow period for 12 day, but after the Paragard's 21 day super heavy flow periods it was nothing. Soon the acne cleared up, and the periods shortened to 9 days of light flow. Sadly in the last fours months with the Mirena there have been some major side effects. There is a frustrating additional 12-20 pounds that slowly crept up (as warned about) that will NOT come off. I work out medium to high intensity 4-5 days a week with a trainer, and I
The Mirena process in a whole wasnt bad at all. At insertion u feel a slight pinch then its it. You will spot after. You will bleed as your body adjusts to this foreign object in your body. You will want to take it out but DONT. It is so much worth the wait. 5 Yrs!? My son is now only 2 yrs old and im already thinking about my next one.
I have had mirena for about 4 months now and I love it. I still have semi normal periods and cramping but that doesn't bother me so much. The placement of the IUD was painful I recommend eating before you get it put in. The pain didn't last long and spotted that day and that was it. The only side effect I have experienced was dramatic breast size increase. I went from a 34C to 36DD in just four months. I don't know if anyone else has experienced this or not and I know it effects everyone differently. I also had some nipple tenderness at the beginning but that is also normal. I have not experienced any weight gain or loss. I have not had a child so my placement of the IUD was more painful than those who have. If you have not had a child I would possibly recommend skyla because it is smaller and a little more flexible than mirena. But personally I do not have a problem with mine.
I decided to get Mirena because I had incredibly heavy periods, plus I wanted birth control after having my baby. In the first 6 months after insertion I bled for 2.5-3 weeks of the month, albeit lightly. It was frustrating, because I felt like all it did was replace a one 5-day heavy period for a slow trickle over a longer period of time. After about 6-7 months of that, my periods eventually tapered off, but would still last up to 2 weeks, but were minimal enough, I could just use liners and didn't need tampons. So, if you have heavy periods like me, then realize it may take several months for you to get to no or minimal periods. I just had it taken out due to other medical issues, and immediately started the heaviest period I had had in YEARS. Basically, I used to have really heavy periods all the way in to my 30s, but they had become somewhat more manageable on my late 30s, then tapered off a bit more after childbirth, and now I'm having my worst period since my early 30s at the age of 44, plus cramping, which I also hadn't had on years. Hopefully just a one time deal following removal. As far as pain during insertion and removal, I had very little, bit perhaps because I was pos
So far I'm loving it! Insertion was painful! Worst cramps I've ever had. The doctor was amazing though and talked to me through the whole process. I hate going to the gyn (or any dr. for that matter), but a good, informative, and supportive doctor can make a world of difference. The process is uncomfortable and takes about 5-10 minutes I'd say.. First the speculum goes in, they did an internal ultrasound to make sure my uterus looked good, then they clean your cervix, then dilate it, then insert the IUD. The dilation and insertion is the most painful, but wasn't unbearable. The doctor sympathized and encouraged me and told me to wiggle my toes. I actually had a student putting it in, but she did it fast and on the first try while the doctor watched. I was in a lot of pain for maybe 30 seconds before the student was like "It's in!" and I'm like "Really?!" and I was VERY glad to be done. As soon as she took the speculum out a lot of the excruciating cramps disappeared. I think the process would have been a lot worse if I didn't have such a supportive doctor. I've had it in for about a month. My mild cramps (felt like my normal period cramps) disappeared after about 2.5 weeks. My fi
I LOVE MIRENA. Seriously. It has literally changed my life. I used to have a full 7 day period every 28 days, complete with intense cramping the first 4-5 days to the point of not being able to move away from the heating pad. I was literally scheduling meetings at home and making plans around my period because I knew that with it came pain, nausea, and migranes. I had tried oral birth controls before, but every one that I tried had weird side effects on me or just didn't help with the cramps, plus I just really didn't like having to take a pill every day. My doctor recommended Mirena, and it sounded like a dream! The initial insertion was VERY painful (I've never had kids) but it only lasted for about 3 minutes so that was tolerable. It was comparable to maybe the worst cramps I've ever had, but not much worse than that. The first month was also a bit of a headache, with cramping and bleeding almost every day after I got it placed until my first period after insertion. I'm now on month 4 of having it, though, and my periods are almost light enough to not need tampons, my cramps are reduced to a mild pain treated easily with advil for one day, AND I don't have to worry about pregnan
I had it installed for heavy bleeding/menopause. The first week was tough. I had an 800 mg pain pill just before insertion. No periods at all since insertion. No problems after first weeks. I had the big headaches, cramping etc for the first few weeks. But I toughed it out and it has been a great 3 years now. I can't even tell it's in there. Good libido too!
I had Mirena for 5 years. Medium pain/pinching for a second or two upon insertion, 5 years of no pain and no periods (woohoo!). I am now 28 and have never had children. No weight gain or mood swings while I was on it, but thought that I was losing hair more than normal toward the end (but nothing that alarming, and it may have just been my imagination). I really loved it and would recommend other women give it a try!
I had my coil for 5 years, I had it fitted as my periods where so heavy. It took about 6 months for that sharp feeling to disappear and for my periods to almost stop they where extra light virtually non existent which was great, however my only concern is my weight I always weighed 9 and half to 10st so have always been skinny but over the 5 years I went up to 12stone which was shocking. I've had it removed as 5 years was up and am having a break from it to see if my weight changes hope it does! But wow my period has hit me 3 days after removal and back to very heavy and the period pains are outrageous but just staying focused to see about the weight if nothing changes in 6 months will have it fitted again
Just got my mirena placed on Thursday and despite the horror stories I was all for it. Took 3 ibuprofens before going to the clinic. Asked the doctor how much the pain would be on a scale of 1-10 and she said a 9. Which scared me of course. But anyways, the only bad part of it was that since I'm only 21 and haven't had any kids, my cervix would not open up at first. The pain, I would rate it a 7. But trust me it is bearable. Almost passed out when they tried to open up my cervix but that's about it. It's not all that scary. Very little bit of bleeding now because of the cervix not opening up but the pain after is exactly like period cramps. Overall I do recommend. Don't let the scary reviews scare you away!!
I'm a little confused by all of these horror stories. I've had Mirena for about 3 months now. I was having irregular bleeding for 90 days... No one could figure out why. Mirena stopped the bleeding dead in its tracks. I've had 1 period since which lasted a little longer than usual. I should have started a period this week but it was mild spotting for 3 days and now I'm back to normal. As far as the side effects, I was very hormonal for about 2 weeks around a month and a half after insertion. I was either depressed or angry or sad. That has subsided as well. The pain during insertion is very uncomfortable, however I had a c-section, so that is to be expected. Overall, I highly recommend Mirena and I look forward to the years of carefree birth control I have ahead of me!
I had Mirena inserted today. I did the worst thing you could possibly do and read all the bad reviews and horror stories before I went in today. So I was expecting it to be a really bad experience. It wasn't. I am 42, have had two children and have been on birth control pills for years. My periods are heavy, clumpy, and I have very bad cramps. So this IUD was recommended to me. I took 800mg of Motrin before the procedure. I think the anticipation was worse then the actual procedure. My Dr talked me through it while the nurse held my hand. There is sharp cramps and a couple of pinches. Then it's done. I did get a headache when I sat up so I laid down for a bit and had some water. My husband and I went to lunch afterwards and then I slept for a couple of hours. I've had cramping and very light bleeding. Since I've only received it today, I'm not sure what future effects will be like but just wanted to comment on my thoughts about the insertion.
I just got my 1st Mirena inserted today. I'm 44 & never had children. My husband & I tried for 7 yrs for a child with no luck so we decided that as I was turning 45 I would start on birth control because we are at the point now where we are concerned about the risks of pregnancy at this age. I was on the pill yrs ago & had no issues but my gynecologist said that the iud was a better & safer choice at my age. I was very nervous after reading all of the negative reviews but the Insertion was not as bad as I expected. She did have a harder time placing it on me than most because I've had 2 LEEP procedures in my life & there was scar tissue as a result so it took longer then it probably should have for placement but nothing terrible. Felt a pinch & some pressure & some cramping but nothing that was intolerable. I took 400 mg of ibuprofen right before the appt. Being on my period during insertion was recommended by my gynecologist so the cramping I felt during & after was nothing worse then being on my period. I'm 3 hrs in & the cramping is gone. I just feel some pressure & a little bloated. I can't speak for side effects or how my period will be as a result because I've not been on it
So I got mirena a month after having my son. So far I love it, I've only had it for six months now but I haven't had any problems at all. I am a little concerned as to my period though. It's been normal but this last month I didn't have it at all, I've taken pregnancy tests and they come back negative every time, so I'm not sure if it's the birth control or what. So we shall see.
I decided to get Mirena when I was in a committed relationship because we wanted "unprotected" sex. For one year, we never used a condom and had no problems. I lightly spotted for four weeks after the insertion and then never had a period after that. It was great because I didn't have to worry about taking the pill - and I always forgot to take the pill before. So the carefree birth control seemed like a great option. But then about three months after I got Mirena put in, I noticed my hair was coming out more in the shower. Chunks of hair would fall out when I brushed my hair or even scratched my head. My hair is now about 1/3 the thickness it use to be - and because I have such fine hair to begin with, it doesn't leave me with much at all. So I decided to get it take out. I got it out four days ago - and that was even more painful than getting it in. The gyno couldn't get a firm grasp on it and tried to pull it out six times before she was successful - an even at that she had to use the largest speculum I've ever experienced. Awful. Absolutely awful. If you need to loose hair - I would recommend Mirena. I wish I had never decided to get it in the first place. Hopefully my hair wi
Making story short. On it for 7 years. Stopped my periods, happy about that. For 7 years, had excruciating pain in my joints and lower back. Could not stand for long periods of time. Thought it was post pregnancy changes. Then I visibly started losing my hair. Did research and saw others experienced this with Mirena. I got off and in 2 weeks lost 15 lbs., all my pain ubsided and 2 years later, my hair is back to normal.
*sigh* to my dear sisters out there, I wish you all well, and I hope that you are doing your best to educate yourselves. I am so happy for those of you who have mirena and love it, and I deeply feel for those of you who have suffered because of it. We are all so different in our bodies, hormones, diets, and experiences. It seems fairly foolhardy for women to proclaim "don't let negative reviews scare you! This works great!" These negative reviews deserve respect, sympathy, and love. Here is my negative review- I have had this for about 6 montha, and I am afraid it was a horrible decision. I went in for the copper iud, and the doctor cheerily talked me into this one. The pain of insertion was bearable for me, but that is just me. The negative side effects have been about 20 pounds of very quick weight gain, drastic mood swings, where I have been afraid for my 4 little kids and felt like I was a strange monster, and depression like I have never felt in my life. I have been dieting very strictly and actually joined Crossfit, out of desperation and violent hatred for my body. None of my efforts have worked. 6 to 7 hours of intense training and lifting, no sugar, low carbs, no dairy, lo
It was awful!!!! I removed it myself only 2 weeks after insertion, i could not take the pain.
got first mirena in 7 years ago periods stopped not much problem or so I thought.got my 2nd one in almost two year ago cried for 6 weeks rang doctor to have it removed but decided to give hormones a chance to calm down and just gone on with it. I had a lot of things happening in my life busy working.we have three children so lots going on but everything was such an issue.noise drove me crazy.everything was so loud.I overthought every situation.things got so bad. I forgot all about the mirena and just thought I was depressed.I kept extra busy took up extra activities but nothing worked I felt low and useless.cried non stop put make up on to look happy for work and smile for customers.I drove to the river one night I wanted the hurt to stop I wanted the anger I felt to go away.I loved my family and friends.my best friends brother commited suicide I couldn't put anybody through that.I went for councelling wrote down my thoughts exercised but nothing worked I would be fine for few days then so low.I was wore out.I felt guilty for feeling like this.my husband said go and get it out but I didn't think it could make me feel so bad.I finally read reviews and it was like reading about myse
This is just a review on the placement. I'm 24, never been pregnant. I just got it placed today and it was SO MUCH easier than I thought. I read all the horror stories and I was really nervous to have it done. My sweet husband came with me to hold my hand. He ended up getting really nauseous watching the procedure. Halfway through I turned to him and actually asked if HE was okay hahaha. It definitely hurt, but not much worse than any cramps I've had before. If your Dr offers painkillers, I recommend taking them. I did, and though I didn't really feel any noticeable effects, I'm sure they were helping some. I also recommend bringing your man. My husband has a new appreciation for what us ladies go through. ;)
Do not use Mirena if you have had any struggles in the past with hormonal birth control!! Mirena was fine for 6 months: my period stopped, I lost weight and my facial skin was perfect. Little did I know the compromise to my hormones was gearing up to ruin my scalp, my sanity, and cause me a psychiatric hospitalization (multiple). Mirena caused me severe folliculitis with unabated itching. I could not control my scratching, even in public. I had to get the IUD surgically removed, and that took forever. My anxiety got so bad, I completely stopped sleeping. Within 6 months of getting it removed, the scalp resolved and it still does not itch. Meanwhile ALL these doctors (shrinks and derms) who told me I was Munchausen, somatoform, borderline, etc. I am still trying to get my life back after losing everything. Of course no lawyer would touch this. Be careful what you wish for.
I am a very active person, and am abou to start med scool, so when I decided to have the mirena inserted a year and a half ago, I was bering very proactive in choosing what I thought was the best birth control for me. Fortunately I booked a Friday off when I got it inserted, because I reacted terribly to it. The insertion itself was actually done under a local anesthetic and was no worse than bad period cramps. My body had this insane sympathetic nervous system reaction which I can best describe is like being blackout drunk without the fun parts. Nausea, spinning floor, trouble breathing, headache, double visiion, pain everywhere. It took my two hours to get from the office to my car on the main floor with help. That aside, my heavy periods stopped completely the year after that. But I did learn this birth control increases risk of depression by 40%. Lucky me. And many women gain 30-40 pounds despite exercise and healthy eating. So I went from being a healthy 5'10" and 135 pounds to 175 in just over a year. This was not the right one for me, though many women love it. Keep a close eye on your side effects-it took me far too long to put 2 and 2 together and I just had it removed (p
The insertion was extremely painful (I have never had children and can definitely handle pain), but it was definitely bearable. I had a lot of bad cramping and bleeding for the first month. The bleeding was daily for a while but after the first month the cramping lessened considerably and the bleeding has completely stopped. Now it is absolutely great, no worries or pregnancy scares, no bleeding, and no cramping. I highly recommend!
I've reached 5 years on my old Mirena and had it removed and replaced just today. The first insertion 5 years ago was almost pain-free and I had the joy of worry-free and side-effect free birth control for 5 years. Added bonus is that I may have one extremely light period a year. Today the removal and insertion has me feeling mildly crampy, but I'm looking forward to another hassle-free five years. I know everyone's body is different, and I am thankful that Mirena works incredibly well for me. I love having birth control that is not only hassle-free, but also local rather than systematic. I highly recommend it to all of my girlfriends.
I am undergoing surgery to have a tubal ligation and having the mirena removed. I have had it for 3 years. I am glad I will be having it removed under anesthesia as the pain of having it inserted was almost unbearable. I have spotting all the time and have a metallic odor before and during my period that I never had prior to the mirena. I am 46 and don't have many other good options. I would rather have surgery than keep using this birth control method. Horrible product!
I was hesitant to get Mirena due to the many negative reviews I had read about painful insertions, constant cramping, etc. I did not experience any of that. I have had 2 children and had Mirena placed 8 weeks after delivering my youngest. The same doctor who delivered my son also placed the Mirena. In my experience, it was no more difficult than having a pap smear done, it was done quickly and the doctor explained every step along the way. I had mild spotting for a few days after insertion, but nothing heavy as I had not started having a period again since delivering my son as I am breastfeeding. I did not have any residual cramping and my milk supply was not affected. That all being said, I know that everyone's experiences are different, but it should be noted that not all experiences are bad.
Hi guys, I had he mirena could filled about 2 months ago now not going to lie and basically the worst pain I've ever felt. i got ff the table and was sick twice and basically suffered with spotting and sever cramps for the first month and a half. it has FINALLY calmed down and everything feels normal. believe me, there were many nights where i went into the toilet in attempt to pull it out but trust me its worth the wait. i was at my tethers end before it started ti slow down and reach a complete stop.i not havnt had a period in almost a month and its the greatest feeling in the world. hassle free sex and no worrying needed. i do still take a pregnancy test make once every two months because the whole new periods thing is new tome. my advise, take the discomfort and stick with it :)
I got the mirena six months after delivering by daughter. I heard all the awful things about it and asked my doctor what he thought first. Doctors think the mirena is a godsend despite what all their patients say. If you're looking for something to prevent pregnancy, this is great. No birth control is 100% effective, however, this is highly effective. But that's all it's good for. I will start my next point by saying that everybody's body reacts differently to IUDs. I happened to bleed and have horrible cramping for MONTHS. I'm talking six months of labor contractions cramping. Then it all stopped for a bit and I felt fine. Then I got bad cramping a few months later. It went away and i felt fine once again. Then a couple months later i went from cramping and spotting every two weeks, then down to every week, down to a full blown period. Now I haven't stopped cramping in five weeks and my period had lasted for three weeks. For the past two weeks I had pregnancy symptoms but I never had a period so I figured my body was PMSing and I guess it's just going to keep PMSing until I start bleeding. I also noticed that once a month (when my period should be, I'm assuming), my depr
I was very skeptical with any IUD method because the insertion and constant treatment scared me a little. I'm 21 years old, a little in the heavy side and the only way I get a constant period is with birth control, pills. It's a problem I've had since I got my first period and with college and all I was having a hard time following my cycle and such. I got the Mirena even tho I have no kids. I bled the day hey inserted, very light bleeding all day and then a little less he next day. I had some cramping and I guess adjusting, also took some time. I stopped bleeding after my 3rd day and had sex with my boyfriend the following week. It felt fine and there was no problems in my end either. I recommend the mirena to any young and busy college girl to take it. It was the best choice I took.
I had the mirena put it at my 6 week post baby appt. Everything went well with little to no pain. But afterwards I had severe cramping for 3 months. Every month I would go to the gyno complaining and he would brush it off. Tell me to take Tylenol or ibuprofen. He did an internal ultrasound and I was still in place. Perfect. I had it removed three months after I had it put in. I have not been on bc since then. That was 4 1/2 years ago. My husband and I have been trying for two years for another child. I truly believe that mirena is to blame.... Others have had great results. Everyone is different. I just regret not getting it removed immediately after the cramping started.
I've had the mirena in for 3 months and have been bleeding since day one
I just got Mirena inserted Friday. It was a very quick process and only slightly painfully for a few seconds. I did take the recommended dose of 800mg ibuprofen before hand. I bled a little after insertion and had a few cramps. Today is Sunday and all the spotting and cramps have completely stopped. Don't be scared off by the negative reviews. It wasn't that bad and I'm glad I chose Mirena.
I just got my Mirena today. I read about the effectiveness of it and I went for it. Putting the IUD hurt like HELL! I was in so much pain my doctor had to give me a couple of injections to numb my cervix. After a few hours I don't feel any pain but I'm still bleeding. I still cannot tell you how effective it is because that takes time, all I can tell you is that you should take some Ibuprofen or ask your doc to numb your cervix of your tolerance to pain is not that good. I will sibmit more comments on its effectiveness once more time has passed! Good luck!
brain fog, extreme bloating, crazed mood swings, insomnia, vision problems, inability to get out of bed in morning, exhaustion, acne, depression. had mirena removed after six weeks and then estrogen spiked so there were two weeks of worse insomnia, extreme pms symptoms. did a cleanse with no wheat, sugar or alcohol for two weeks and felt like myself finally. ob who removed mirena said the fake progesterone wreaks havoc on your body and mind, she only prescribes them with life threateningly heavy periods
I just got the mirena inserted today. I read so many girls talking about it hurting so much they passed out and I was honestly nervous. I'm 18 years old, never had a pap smear done, never had kids. At first it was I st very uncomfortable, when the doctor opened my cervix is when I felt strong period like cramps. Besides being uncomfortable the pain wasn't worse then some of the cramps iv gotten while on my period.
I had my Mirena IUD inserted in Oct 2013 (age 31, no kids) and though the day of insertion was mildly uncomfortable, the first several months (maybe about 6 months) provided me with random bleeding and bleeding during sex. Suffice to say, my partner at the time was extremely patient, and I just kept wondering if it was worth it. Once my body regulated to the IUD, I realized that it was the best birth control I ever used. I used to suffer from periods that lasted a full week or more, and the bloating and cramps tested my patience (and I have a lot of patience). Under Mirena, I still had my period, but it was a pantyliner worth and maybe just for 2 days. I had absolutely no cramps or bloating EVER, and life was normal every day all year round. No more heating pads, days of fatigue and weakness laying on the couch, or popping ibuprofen every day for a week thanks to cramps. I just had it removed (Jan 2017) and am sad to see it go, but my hubby and I are planning for kids now. Though the side effects of the IUD for the first few months tested me, I hands down would use Mirena again once my hubby and I are done having kids. I'd actually rather just have a hysterectomy, but that's irrel
I have never been pregnant and I have really bad cramps when I ovulate and during my period. I could not tolerate this inside me. It was extremely painful and after about 10 minutes; the doctor had to take it out. I was sweating profusely, I felt my heart racing, and the nurse and doctor said I was very pale. I felt like I was going into shock and was about to pass out. I have a girlfriend that has this and she didn't experience any thing like I did. She has had a child though.
The procedure was extremely painful--and I honestly would not recommend the insertion to people who have a lower tolerance for pain. However, I do not have my period anymore (not complaining there) and I have not experienced any hormonal side effects such as weight gain, heightened mood swings, etc. The first few hours were very hard, however the morning after, I was as good as new.
I feel like people only come on the internet to give bad reviews. Don't listen. I have tried EVERYTHING! Pills are a joke...mood swings, acne and weight gain and bleeding never stopped. Don't let the insertion stories scare you. It wasn't enjoyable but it was worth it. If your doctor offers you the Block, get it! They numb your cervix to make insertion less painful... if you have the day to rest, then I think without the block would be fine.. I had to go to work right after so I opted for the numbing. I am only on day 4 but I LOVE IT!! I had bad period cramps for 2 days but not having to worry about it has improved my sex life already. They inserted during my period and my period stopped the day after.. usually my periods are up to 14 days long and irregular as heck. so far so good. Also, my fiance is very well...ehhemm endowed, but he wasn't bothered by the strings at all.
I haven't had the Mirena long, so my experience won't speak to the long-term effects. But I wanted to share how the insertion went for me. I read so many reviews on how painful it was to have done, and I'm not discounting that it seems to be very painful for many people, but I did not see many people speak to them not having a lot of pain during insertion. I'm 30 years old and I've never had children. I was not on my period when the Mirena was inserted. I did take 800 mg of ibuprofen prior to my appointment. We learned that my cervix is small and it took several tries before my doctor could "grab" it. I honestly did not feel much of anything other than some light cramping. My cervix opened for the instrument she used to measure my uterus, but it did not want to open enough for the actual IUD. This resulted in my doctor needing to use dilators to "stretch" it enough to get the Mirena in. The largest dilator was seriously the only thing that made me go ouch, and even then it was only for a second and more of a "hello" than a real "ouch". After that, the Mirena went in fabulously. Regarding pain, not addressing the second with the dilator, because apparently that is very ra
Had my Mirena put in on January 11th. Started my period on 15th and as of now (January 26th) still on it. No signes of stopping or slowing down. Flow is decent. Experienced pretty bad cramping for about first 5 days ,till the point I thought of going to a doctor. After that cramping every day , but nothing too bad. Mood swings, cravings and bunch of other side effects. Procedure itself was not too bad at all. Hurt pribably for few seconds. I am going to give it a try for about 3-4 months at the very most. For sure not for everybody. Happy for ladies who have great experience. But do not be upset if yours is not same.
I have had my Mirena almost 5 years. Having had 2 babies by c-section, I had the Mirena inserted when I was about 2 months post-pardum, at the age of 35. While the pain having it placed was very uncomfortable (I would liken it to labor pain), it did not last long. I experienced mild bleeding for a few days afterwards, but have gone years without bleeding since then. The initial discomfort is well worth the years of no birth control pills, no menstrual cycle, and no unplanned pregnancies. I have had zero negative side effects from the Mirena, and plan to have mine replaced soon.
Didn't hurt much, just uncomfortable getting put in. This is going on 4 months now having. Have been spotting frequently, but periods are not as heavy. Can't wait till there is no more periods
Ok, guys. Let me set the record straight. IT DOESN'T HURT THAT BADLY. I just came from an insertion less than two hours ago. From when they put the speculum in to when they interested the IUD took 120 seconds TOPS. For some background on myself. I have never given birth, I was not on my period, I took no drugs besides 800mg iburofen, and I got the Mirena inserted (which is the larger of the IUDs.) It felt just like period cramps- no stabbing or sharp pains. I suffer from extremely painful period cramps each cycle, and on a scale of 1-10 in cramp pain- I give Mirena a 6. After it was done, she trimmed the strings, and I was already sitting up feeling ready to put my clothes on. It's a couple hours later, and I feel crampy on a level 4 of pain. All in all, this is nothing I couldn't handles for 5 years of protection! Anyone worried about the pain, don't be. It's nothing more than what you'd experience on a normal crampy period!
I am 22 and have never had kids but after 6 years of trying onto remember to take my birth control/the cost of my pills fluctuating up to 60 bucks a month, and my irregular life schedule making it difficult to take the same time everyday, just opted for Mirena. I was unaware that I should have had the procedure done while on my period, but I had taken 3 ibuprofen an hour before going in to the clinic. I'm normally a very composed person with a high tolerance to pain and ability to grin and bear through most things. The insertion of the iud was absolutely the worst pain I've ever felt in my life. I yelped a few times, was breathing heavily, sweating profusely, and very seriously considered yelling for her to just stop and forget the whole thing and let me forfeit the 600+ I just self-paid. Luckily the insertion was only 5 minutes long and the two nurses kept talking to me and asking me questions to try and keep me calm. I had to remain laying down for 5 minutes then slowly sat up for 10 mins uses before they let me get up and change, just to make sure I wouldn't pass out from how worked up I was. I would rate the cramping for the next 6 hours to be moderate to severe which I dulled
Well hurt like hell getting it put in. Was in horrible pain for weeks with cramping. Ended up getting pregnant 2 years after getting it put in. After having it removed, my cervix dialates all the time. My Dr can't explain why. I can only guess it had to do with mirena because I never had this problem before. I had 2 kids before I got pregnant with my 3rd on mirena. I would definitely not recommend it!!!
The best decision I've ever made! I have no side effects & I don't have heavy periods anymore. Will definitely recommend the Mirena to anyone. I have had mine for 4 years already and I'm definitely going for my second one :)
I've had the mirena for 4 years and 4 months now. I haven't had any kind of issue with it. The only problem is that I never get my period.
The mirena was one of the absolute worst decisions of my life. I have tried multiple types of birth controls throughout my life and none worked, they made my periods irregular. So I decided to finally try the mirena and oh my lord what a mistake. For starters, it hurt like he'll to get put in! It literally took my breath away and oh the pain. For days I had the worst cramps and I kept bleeding. I had it in for a little over a month and I bled that whole entire time. Non stop. And I'm telling you I was not myself. I have never been so ticked off in my life. I was crying all the time and so angry all the time. I could not control my emotions. The hormones were clearly too much. I was a mess everyday. I woke up with a frown. I just couldn't be pleased and that isn't like me at all. I'm always so happy and smiling and patient. I lost all of that. I'm not myself...even to this day. I had an appointment to get it removed after a month of having it and I couldn't even wait for that so I pulled the damn thing myself. But my hormones are still beyond messed up. I'm still so angry and so upset and I can't control it. I cannot stand how I am acting but again I am not in control. From my ex
I have been on Mirena for 6 years now. I love it I have light periods and no side effects that I know of. However me and my friend started on it together and somehow hers shifted to the right side and we just found out she is 4 months pregnant. So this is not a 100% no birth control is you just still have to be careful and be aware of it coming out or shifting.
I just had mine put in this afternoon. I came in woth no knowledge of how painful it would be but I was willing to after going on the pill, which never worked for me because I would always forget to take it at yhe same time or depo provera which Ive tried thrice and always gained wwight and on my third try, I bled for the two months so it wasnt even worth the shot since it only lasts for two. Upon getting to the clinic, everyone was very accomodating and explained to me that it would feel like mild contractions going in which kinda caught me off guard but I was still willing to go with the procedure. They took a pap before inserting it, and anyone who has had a pap smear, it feels just like gwtting one but with a couple twinges of pain morw. Overall, the insertion went smoothly. On the way hone I had aone cramping as anyone would on their peeiod and the light apotting which has stopped for me already and there is still some pain there. I do have a headache but im bot aure if its from the mirena or not. Hoping that its not because im not a fan of anything of constant pain. Will update next month on progress
I read so many reviews about this product that I nearly didn't get it. After having 2 babies in 2 years my doctor strongly believed it was the best option. I just wanted to share that the insertion of the product was not painful at all. Feels just like a pap. Just relax. Don't let all of the terrible reviews make you believe that it will be awful, everyone is different. Also no cramping, but there is immediate spotting.
I got the Mirena placed last February, and just recently got it taken out. After almost a year of continuous yeast infections (never had them prior), extreme cramping every single day, spotting all the time, nausea, mild acne (never had before), and extreme weight gain, I HAD to get it taken out. The pain made me angry and depressed all the time, as well as the weight I gained. Wouldn't recommend to my worst enemy. Although it effects everyone differently, consider something else before resorting to this!
I got it inserted into me yesterday. . it was rather uncomfortable and painful inserting it (but im a big baby when it comes to pain) anyways 4 hourd after i left i had very bad side effects i was really scared out of no where i felt like my body was weaking up on me so i had my fiance grab my 8 mo th old daughter so that i wouldnt drop her. I sat in the driveway cause my heart was pounding 5x faster then normal, my head was spinning so bad i couldnt even walk and i began to develop a severe migraine and sweating prefusively i managed to build the strengh to wobble myself into the house and collapsed onto my bad and layed down and focused on trying to get my heart beat normal one that happened one whole side of my body went numb and my headache worsened to the point that it was unbearable idk if it had to do with the iud but thats never happened before so im assuming it was .. Every sympton went away within the hour expect the migraine .. Day 2 was today and i was perfectly fine just some cramping that is bearable
I had it inserted 7 months ago periods reduced becoming more normal until now I have had my period for the past 10 days. I am not having any cramps or headaches . I thinking of calling gyro to see if this is normal I am 47 years old.
I have to say getting it in sucks but only took half hour start to finish. It is so easy and i can't even tell it's there. i got it over month ago. i actaually have lost weight with no problem. Birth control pills always make me gain. I had Paraguard first but had removed always bloated and my period lasted two weeks. Now light easy period!
Mirena is either going to work for you or its going to be horrible. MIrena was the worst thing I've ever taken. The pain of insertion was horrific. I knew that was going to happen, but I didn't expect to have random returns of that same pain for months afterward. I would be at work and just double over with extreme, incapacitating pain. It only lasted about a minute but its utterly incapacitating. I also broke out in severe, painful chest and back acne that would not respond to anything topical. We are talking huge, painful pimples. I've never had acne. I took it out after a year, the symptoms never resolved. I've heard other people love it but it ruined my life. I have Nuva Ring and am as happy as can be.
So I just got this IUD inserted about 2 hours ago. I'm 21 years old, no children. Let me tell you, the pain of insertion is no joke. My doctor didn't give me any warning as to how bad it would be and only gave me ibuprofen after I almost passed out. I'm home now and still having unbearable cramps. Hopefully the cramping subsides and my bleeding goes away. I'll rate this again in a few months after the regulation period.
I am 21 years old and have never had a kid. DO NOT let all of these awful reviews scare you. The procedure wasn't bad at all. The NP had to put 2 different IUDs in me because the first one didn't stay in the right place and both times it was a breeze. I made sure I was on my period and I took 2 ibuprofen before I went in, which helped with the slight discomfort. I had some mild cramping and light spotting for a while after I got it put in, but no other side effects. It wasn't anything like some of these reviews say it is. "It was the most painful thing I've experienced..", "I had to take 2 Vicodin before and after..", ect. It was super fast and it isn't nearly as bad as everyone on this site says it is. Everyone has their own experiences, but mine was very positive. I 100% recommend to others and would do it again in a heartbeat.
I've been on the mirena for 3 years now, I'm only 19. The insertion was not nearly as painful as everyone makes it out to be, it was almost nothing more then your average pap smear. The mirena works 100% to preventing pregnancy, so yes, it does fulfill it's primary purpose. However, I've been getting a lot of yeast infections and I'm lead to believe it's from the mirena even though my doctor swears it's impossible. I've gotten two ovarian cysts definitely from the mirena. My period has been slim to nothing and mirena was able to provide that to me like no other birth control could. It's great however mirena does have its con's just like any drug does.
I am 46 years old with 2 grown children. Had Mirena placed to help with the premenopausal heavy periods and cramping. The insertion was very uncomfortable and the cramping began immediately and hasn't subsided since. I've been having constant back pain and light/moderate bleeding since day of insertion which was 17 days ago. I called the doctor last week and was told that this could last up to 3 months. Thinking about having it removed since it is affecting my day to day activities. As other people have mentioned, ibuprofen does not do anything for the cramping nor does Midol. The whole reason for getting the Mirena was to stop the cramping and the bleeding, now it's constant, not what I signed up for. I can't recommend Mirena at this time.
My period increased to 10 days or more after 10 days it on/off for the rest of the month.. And I've notice there is a odor
As many have said, it's very clear that this device affects people quite differently. However, I felt I should share my experience since the negative reviews almost led me to having the device removed early on. The insertion was relatively painful, but manageable and straightforward. This was followed by days of severe cramps, which went into weeks. After a month of feeling drained, in pain, bloated and constipated my boyfriend grew concerned and encouraged me to rethink my actions. Also I constantly craved sugar, and found my sex drive dwindling. Many of the reviews I have read are by women who struggled with these symptoms for months and even years. With how I felt at this point there was no way I was willing to go through that. I gave myself a 3 month limit, I was going travelling after this so I wasn't prepared to hold out for the recommended 6 months. After the first month, the cramps continued but they were becoming less frequent. I'm now 4 months into the Mirena and I haven't had a noticeable period since insertion, other than slight bleeding in month 2. The cramps have stopped entirely and I no longer am feeling bloated or constipated. I have also found my sex d
so i've had mirena since july 2016. My periods before were only 5 days now they last about 10 days which suck i hate this. Another thing i haven't gain any weight since which is a good thing. Am not sure if i should remove the devise or wait maybe a year. I do remember they did mention i would have lighter periods less day but not happening atleast not now still waiting on them.
I had Mirena inserted in November 2016 for ademetrosis. Did not have it inserted for birth control reason's because I also had a tubal ligation few years ago. Before Mirena I had extremely painful periods and heavy bleeding lasting 7 days. I am in my mid 30's and doctor suggested Mirena before we try other methods. Upon insertion, it was a little painful and uncomfortable. Two weeks after having it, I developed a slight headache one day. Then vertigo came on and my vision started to go. So I laid down and it subsided. Then my right hand went numb, up into my arm. Decided to go to the hospital. On the way to hospital, the numbness went into my face. Then it all quickly went away but slight headache remained. After numerous tests and a nights stay, they just said it was a migraine. Though they didn't think it was linked to IUD. I have only had one migraine in my life and that was years ago. Well a day after that I started spotting. I continued to spot for 21 days. I stopped bleeding for two weeks and I am currently spotting again going on 18 days now. My pain is only slight the first two days of bleeding, thats the only positive from my experience so far. I have gained 14 pounds in 1
First let me start by saying everybody body is different so the expierence I have had could be different for the next person!!!! HOWEVER I've had a GREAT expierence with the Mirena. I've had mine in for going on 5 years nows. I have to get it removed by August of this year. I haven't had a period since October of 2012 and very little side effects. Maybe some mood swings and discharge here and there but nothing major. When getting it put in it was a little uncomfortable at first because I didn't know what to expect but just a few cramps and that was about it. Now I'm curious to see how it feels coming out. YES I definitely plan to get another inserted after this one because I'm not ready for another child. I would recommend anyone to give it a shot bc I'm in the medical field and I understand how everyone body reacts differently to different things so NO ONE SHOULD KNOCK IT BEFORE TRYING IT!!!!!! In my opinion
Prior to getting Mirena inserted, I had read plenty of reviews saying how badly it hurt for it to be put in. I'm 21, never had kids, and didn't take any medicine before the procedure and I was fine. It didn't feel great, but I personally did not have any pain, just discomfort. I've had it in for 3 days and the only side effects I have experienced are cramps (which can be eased with ibuprofen) and indigestion. I've noticed that when I eat more than I should since having it put in, I will get cramps which never happened before. So far, I definitely recommend Mirena.
After years on the pill and problems with mood swings, cramps, and breakthrough bleeding, I finally decided to get a Mirena. I was nervous after reading the litany of negative reviews online, but as I work in the digital space, I know that people who are happy with a product are less likely to leave reviews in general. This is the exact reason I wanted to write a review. I've had the Mirena in for over 6 months now and it has been an excellent experience. My mood swings subsided, libido went up (normalised) and my only negative side effect has been small pimples appearing on my chest at around the time of my period. I haven't had a proper period since the insertion, it's not even a day of very light spotting now. This has been a revelation for someone who had heavy 7 day periods previously. The insertion is uncomfortable but not awful - think a pinchy pap smear. I have never had children, apparently it hurts a bit more if you haven't had your cervix stretched. If you have a low pain threshold consider taking some pain relief prior. You may also experience cramping and dizziness over the next few hours. I suggest getting it done in the afternoon and then taking the rest of the
Don't read these reviews and freak out, honestly the insertion feels like period cramps, it's not terrible. There is a good bit of cramping after the insertion, but it isnt that bad.
Using Mirena has been the worst experience I have ever had with birth control. My doctor recommended it to help with endometriosis and instead of making my periods better this product made my life miserable. From the moment of the very painful insertion I had painful cramps and that day began to bleed. It has been more than a month and everyday I have terrible cramping and bleeding just like my regular period but the difference is this is everyday of my life with no end in sight. I am so exhausted and cannot seem to sleep enough no matter how long I sleep and the mood swings are terrible. I am having it removed today. Terrible experience.
Honestly getting it put in hurt.. it was painful, but bearable and not the worst pain I've ever felt... but I would do it again and again and again. It feels like the worst cramp ever for no more than a minute and its over and done. and now for 5 years i don't have to worry about birth control!!
Mirena has been very effective. I have had it put in a second time after having the the first one for 5 years. It wasn't too painful to put in, some pinching and cramping for a few minutes. What's nice is that I haven't had a period in over 6 years. I'm sure it's not too healthy but its certainly convenient.
Although I took 600MG ibuprofen one hour before the procedure, I still felt a lot of pain. Scale from 1 to 10 for pain, I would rate the pain level at 10, but it was just pain about 5 minutes while the procedure. Then I felt cramp for the rest of the day and night like cramp during period time. After one week, I have my period as I expected it, but my period was lasting for 2 weeks (my periods normally last about 5 days). One week after that, I had spotting for around a week, then I had a little heavier spotting like the first day of period, the it was gone for 1 day, and came back again. This is my first month of inserting IUD experience.
I have never had a child so i was concerned about the device vs. my cervix size. The procedure to insert the device was extrememly painful to the point of a few moments of yelling in pain. Also i had taken a Oxycodone and Meloxicam about 1 hour before the procedure to ensure moderate pain but that didn't hold up. Within 1-2 minutes of the device being inserted the pain went away and i was sore and tender for a few days. Overall i would say its worth it but be prepared for about 5 min of pain.
I actually wouldn't be writing this review if I am not on the verge of having it removed, I had it on for 2 years now. Mirena has not helped me that much in terms of bleeding. I bleed constantly, though very light but can be very frustrating. The only break I get inbetween periods is just 2 weeks, sometimes less. The only downside is the frequent bleeding but highly effective in controlling pregnancy.
I love Mirena. I've had it for two years now. I wouldn't go back to pills if you paid me. The insertion, for me, was painful. I was 26, no children, and I missed my period (preferred time of insertion due to the dilation of cervix) by about a week. So going in, my blood pressure nose dived and I felt nauseous. My factor did congratulate me on not passing out or throwing up, which are both apparently common. After insertion, for about two months, I cramped (the uterus is trying to reject a foreign object, so yeah, some of the cramps were very painful) and spotted. Which was annoying and it made me want to call the whole thing off, but I persevered. And it was fantastic. My periods were never heavy before, and now they are practically non-existent. When I get periods, and some months I don't, it is mild spotting which is easily maintained by wiping when I use the restroom. I rarely use tampons anymore for my periods, so I guess I technically free-bleed, but again, it is super light and it rarely ever leaks onto my panties. It doesn't stop the cramps, or the hormones, however. So some months I'll cramp, but not get a period. I'll break out, crave sweet things, and be genera
Well,first off, there is no option for my main reasoning to choose and go ahead with this IED. Back story: I'm 22 years old, an for the past 1.5 years I have experienced amennorhea (abscense of a period. No children, but I don't see any in my near future anyways (+). I was diagnosed with having high prolactin, most likely due to pituitary growth/lesion. I have to meet with more doctors for tat diagnosis currently, but as for now my doctor recommended Mirena because it locally releases estrogen to the uterus, which in my case has been cut off by the elevated prolactin. So now my uterus is protected by its estrogen once more (+)! Now, here was my experience: I like to believe I have a high pain tolerance but man I cannot stress to you how badly it did hurt getting done. It's so fast though, if you can't go through with it due to the fear of a quick pain sensation you've gotten toughen up a little! Not all good things come without a price, be it small. I highly recommend ibuprofen and taking a day or two off work. I had very painful cramps for an estimated 48 hours after the process, but then again I have never had children and getting my cervix dialated was like "woah". I have
I've been on Mirena for a month and a half. I haven't given it a fair chance with the amount of time I've been on it for but I am ready to take it out. Insertion was not as painful as people describe it to be. As the doctor advised, take deep breaths during insertion and it was feel like a very painful cramp. That's exactly how it felt. It wasn't bad at all. I was able to go to work right after with the exception of very bad period cramp feeling in and out for 48 hours. Uncomfortable but completely bearable. The only reason why I'm ready to take it out is because I've been spotting everyday since my last period and it's on its third week. Very light spotting but annoying. Some days slightly heavier than other does. Also, initially my sex drive was not affected. Now, although my sex drive is normal and I still enjoy having sex, it's very difficult to orgasm. I never have issues with my partner, however, after being on mirena as I said sex still feels great but it is so hard for me to orgasm and this is mainly why I want to get off the IUD.
I got my mirena September 20th and it was hands down the worst thing I ever done. I still have it and I just want it out. I have fibroid tumors so I have heavy periods and my doctor wanted to stop them and for the most part it did. Spotting a lot though.I wanted it out with in the first month my doctor talked me out of it and said give it some time. I did and I'm over it. I have non stop pelvic pain, back pain, severe bloat and discomfort. Sometimes I don't leave the couch, and I work full time and I'm a parent . My husband can feel it ever time we have sex it staped him once and he yelped out. Made me cry, it has completely ruined the mood. Plus I have pain after sex and bleeding. I have gained weight and my face is broken out. Just when I think my face is cleared up boom it's bad again. I don't even sleep well anymore. I will get this thing out as soon as my next day off. I live on advil and they are not working anymore. I might even just take a sick day tomorrow just to get this out. Do not get the mirena please. My sister in law had one one month before me now she has cyst. She is removing hers as well.
I tried Mirena after dealing with bc pills for 10 years. I heard horror stories about this IUD and I also heard amazing things. I opted to give it a try in October 2016. By the 1st week of November I was a different person. I was suicidal, I wanted to divorce my husband, I wanted to run away and have a new life. DO NOT GET THIS IUD! I was never more depressed in my life. Ladies, it may be convenient, but it is not worth the personality change that may or may not happen. I was the unlucky one who had bad side effects. Also, on election night, I could barely walk due to the intense pain. I had Mirena removed in December: Thank God
I'm on day 2 of having Mirena and I'm honestly freaking out because I feel that I should still be taking my pills. Everything else though seems to be fine. Insertion was painful but nothing that I haven't felt before from a normal period. One thing that did catch me off guard was about 45 minutes after Insertion I got really nauseas and almost puked then I had the cold sweats. Once that passed all has been fine, light cramping and waiting for my period to come in a week. All is well.
I recommend anyone to take this birth control method I mean at first I was scared because I never had kids I got it when I was 19 years old and now I'm 23 and up to for fourth year with my experience putting in was easy and fast with no problem I would go every year to get a check up with my obgyn and so far till this day it is amazing light periods less cramps and no worries it's much better than any other birth control method I've been on in years and now that I'm up to my fourth year it's been great ! I highly recommend any women for this birth control!!
Hey Ladies! I just got the Mirena about 15 mins ago. It was easy as 1.2.3. After reading the negative reviews, I was so nervous but my dr Explained each step as he was going. I felt no cramps and maybe a slight pinch. The process was about 3 min. I started my period yesterday so yes, I was on my period. Hopefully my periods will become much lighter. Please don't let all the negative reviews scare you. It's not bad AT all.
Love my mirena so much! One of the best decisions I have made. The first 6 months was rough but once I got thru that it has been roses!!! I had it in 4 years, had it removed to ttc and was pregnant on my 5th cycle! Im going to have another placed at my 6 w pp checkup
I'm on my second day using Mirena and it's been great. For me, having it inserted was easy and almost painless. There was light cramping that lasted seconds and I was driving home less than ten minutes later feeling fine. I have had two kids and am accustomed to cripplingly painful menstral cramps though, so my pain threshold may be different from others. I cannot feel it at all, and so far the only side effect has been very mild cramps. I wish I would have done this years ago!
I had my first one in for 5 years. My second one that I just got removed I had it for a year. Everyone is different but it worked great for me. Periods were extremely light. I know around my menstrual time I would get a bit moody but I think that's the norm for a lot if women. When I got my first one in it did not hurt but when it was removed after 5 years it was a little painful. I received the new one the same day the old one was removed and it was also a little painful when inserted. I got the second one removed the other day and it didn't hurt much.
Just got it. Haven't had it for that long. As all of y'all on here I too looked up all the scary reviews. Was terrified to get the insertion. But I wasn't planning on having anymore kids anytime soon. My doctor made me come in my period. And she said since my cervix was already dialated it would be easier. still shaking as they are starting. But honestly wasn't ANYWHERE NEAR what I would think! I think being on my period really helped. Very gross! But just a little uncomfortable and went shopping right after!
I had my mirena placed December 12 2007 within a couple months time I started experiencing sharp stabbing pains and couldn't feel the string when I checked went to my doctor he did an ultrasound said it looked like it was in the right spot and my body was just adjusting to it. December 26 2008 I found out I was pregnant when my doctor tied my tubes after my baby was born he found the IUD on the outside of my uterus to this day I still have sharp stabbing pains if I lift something too hard laugh or cough or sneeze too hard. This product is horrible everyone I know that has had this has had complications due to it I strongly suggest any other form of birth control!!!
Part 2 - But little clotting, which is good because I had HUGE clots when on Seasonique that were so painful to pass, it was like giving birth and would put me on the floor in pain. It's knocked down my period's natural side effects a lot. I used to always put on around 10 pounds water weight with my period each month, maybe more. Now I hold 0-2 pounds, and I don't feel bloated much during my cycle anymore. The cramps are still painful the first 2 days, but pain meds makes them manageable now, no more pain so bad meds can't touch it, and it's done after 48-56 hours. No spotting at all after the period is done, unlike the pill. No remembering to take it at exactly a certain time. So far, I have noticed it's made sex incredible, definitely notice stronger/longer orgasms. Still a chance my periods may go away or lighten, as I have heard it takes several months before they start to get noticeably lighter. So if you can bear out the first week, it's probably worth it. I would do it again knowing what I know now, BUT if you haven't had babies, see if your doctor can numb you up a bit or give you meds to make insertion easier. Also, be ready to lay down for the rest of the day after you
Part 1 - I had Mirena inserted about 6 week ago. I am 33, never had children. I will say it was indeed the WORST pain of my entire life, I screamed bloody murder. The next 6-7 days were roughly equivalent to the worst period on record, enough pain to wake me from my sleep. My doctor gave me prescription pain meds, which took the edge off but didn't really stop it from hurting. I got this to treat the heavy bleeding and excruciatingly painful periods from my massive fibroids. All that said, the pain decreased after day 7 alot. I still had some cramping throughout the next 3 weeks, but steadily less and less, and not enough to warrant pain meds after around day 7. I did indeed spot for the first month, sometime heavily. As for the results, I have mixed feelings so far, but overall, I'd say it's worth it. I don't have to remember to take a pill for 5 years, best part, as pills caused me to go haywire, timing was always hard for me. the first 7 days is indeed hell (I recommend making it during a week where you aren't traveling and can avoid being too active), after that, it's just spotting for a couple weeks and then it's like it's not even there. As for the bleeding, in my case, I am
My doctor was so eager to switch me from BC pills to the Mirena IUD. I had felt sketched out a bit because she was so persistent, and it did not occur to me until months later that doctors make A LOT of money by convincing women to get the IUD. Anyways, I was reeled in by the fact that you don't have to keep track of it for five years straight so I decided to get mine fall of 2015. The insertion was pretty uncomfortable, but still bearable and not too bad. I spotted continuously for about three months, but I kept it in as I wanted my body to adjust. When the spotting ceased, I thought that I was set for years of comfort and convenience. Sex was a bit uncomfortable for my partner at first as the strings kept poking him, so I went to the doctor to trim them shorter. He sometimes could still feel them poking despite the shortness. That was a slight inconvenience, but not enough to make me consider removal until about half a year passed and I started getting MAJOR anxiety. The whole summer that I was working at a desk job I felt anxious even when I had nothing to worry about really. I felt that I had GAD and went to see a therapist twice. This was also around the time when I started ex
I loved taking the Mirena. I had it placed at my 6 week post-pardem appointment and here I am 5 years later to have it removed. I don't remember the insertion being painful but then again I had a c-section and didnt take any pain pills after the hospital meds wore off because it was bearable (so I'm thinking I have a high pain tolerance). My husband did say he could feel the poking of the strings during sex so my doctor clipped them a little. My periods were extremely light, only needed a panty liner and lasted 3 to 5 days. Some months I never got a period. I can't say there are any significant side effects that I can relate to the Mirena. I've had a very positive experience with it. Several of my friendsister is it as well and also love it. Everyone's body is different so you have to find what works best for you. Good luck!
I just got the Mirena today and when I went in, after reading horror stories (bad idea), I was terrified. I'm 18 years old and never had a child so I was told it would be AWFUL pain. So I was prepared for the worst. My OBGYN prescribed me Misoprostol to take before the insertion. I used my phone during the insertion as a distraction. And much to my surprise, it did not hurt like hardly any. There was slight pain for like maybe a second max and it just felt like a sharp menstrual cramp. And even after, I have had very little cramps and I am able to do everything normal and I don't feel it. I would recommend the Mirena to ANYONE
I had my mirena for about 8 months. I never have had kids so the insertion was like an 7 1/2 out of 10 on pain. I loved I didn't have to remember to take the pill everyday! I had random cramps throughout the months even when not on my period but other than that I liked it because it worked and made my periods lighter. Everyone on here saying that it's horrible... obviously it's different for everyone so I recomend you to try it out at least. Give it a chance because like I said it's different for everyone. It may be perfect for you or it may not be but you can't assume from some bad reviews until you try it!
I just got my mirena today. So far so good! Extremely easy insertion without any pain!!!
All i can say is.I sat on the toilet after my hubby and i did it and pulled it out.End of story made my period and sex life a disaster
I just got my mirena taken out today after 6 years of use. I remember how horrible it was to get put in, it was so uncomfortable, I was doubled over for days! It worked well, however, my super heavy periods had ceased and when my periods came back (about 5 years in), my PMS wasn't as bad and my cycle lasted and out 4 days with just some spotting. I still had cramps and developed migraines while on mirena. Today, I had it removed, which was still uncomfortable but not nearly as bad. It really worked well, but I think I won't go back on it. I could feel when it shifted, it did hurt, and I would often have unexplained cramping outside of my time and with no diagnosis. I recommend it as a long term option, especially if you have had a child. For women without children, do your research and ask many questions. I still remember the horrible cramping from when I had it put in.
I had the Mirena inserted today. It wasn't all that painful. I had 2 times that I had really strong cramping during insertion.. My cervix was tight so they had to use a cervix softener....made me have a couple of hard cramping...and the other time was when she inserted it. I've had 3 kids (c-sections) and one miscarriage at 15 weeks so it was really not bad. I've not had any bleeding, not even spotting. Mild to moderate cramping afterward...lying down is a lot better than sitting up. I took Midol instead of straight Tylenol maybe that's why it isn't too bad. Mine isn't for BC but for endometriosis and heavy bleeding causing anemia.
This is the worst birth control I have ever been on. The reason it is so effective is because you not get a chance to have sex the entire time you have it. I have periods that last between 14 and 20 days and then i get maybe a week where I'm not bleeding. I have had the Mirena for 9 months and I hate it. I haven't gotten it removed because I keep thinking that my body will adjust and my periods will become regular or they will stop altogether, 9 months later and I still have near constant bleeding. I can't wait to get this thing out of me. I really miss my regular periods where I have 3 weeks where I don't have to worry. I have to admit that the worst part is that I never know when the bleeding will start, so I always carry pads and tampons and I feel like I have to check constantly. 1000% would not recommend.
I just got a Jaydess IUD inserted, which is made by the same company as Mirena. They prescribe this one to young women who never gave birth, because it is smaller and contains less hormones. I can't say anything about long terms effects because I just got it, but so far I'm suprised by how easy it has been. The insersion barely felt worse than the first day of my period. I did feel the IUD go up into my uterus, which was unpleasant for about 10 seconds. The entire procedure lasted less than 5 minutes. I bled the rest of the day and basically just felt like regular period with cramps, and my cramps are usually very light. Before getting it, I read a bunch of reviews saying it was the worst pain in the world, so I walked in the doctor's office expecting the worst. The doctor did freeze my cervix before hand, which apparently not all doctors do. I'm guessing this and the two advils I took an hour before helped alot. I would say the entire procedure was uncomfortable rather than painful, and I'm 21 years old, never had children or even a pap smear.
I just had Mirena inserted yesterday but I wanted to share my insertion experience. I have never had children so I was worried that it was going to be extremely painful. I took 800mg of Aleve about an hour beforehand. The best way to describe it is it is like getting a piercing, a sharp pain followed by more dull achy pain. There were 3 sharp pains, when they clamp your cervix, when they measure the size of your uterus and when they insert the Mirena. Each sharp pain was followed by what felt like a strong period cramp. The whole procedure only took about 5 min. It felt like the first day of my period for about 5 hours after but it wasn't bad, I even went Christmas shopping immediately after. It's now the next morning and I have had no bleeding or spotting and I'm not even cramping anymore! Before getting Mirena I had a really hard time deciding between that and Paragard but I am really happy I decided on Mirena since while I was at the doctor my OBGYN mentioned that this is the birth control she uses and she rarely recommends Paragard to women unless they really want a hormone free birth control or there is some medical reason they can't use Mirena. I am hopeful I won't h
I have had it for three years with no periods every now and then my boobs get tender but I think that's the time that I'm supposed to be on my. I love it it's a very effective way to prevent pregnancy I would recommend this to anyone
Just got Mirena put in today. It was not painful as people complain. Make sure u take ibuprofen before procedure for the cramping. I agree with others who said if u had children before that it doesn't hurt as much. It's proven true today! I had two children vaginally. It only took less than 5 minutes to place it in your uterus. So far no pain. I cramp a little. I could go back to work today but rather relax and enjoy day off. I will go to work tomorrow. This is only my first day but I feel positive about the whole experience and results that will come. Also you will spot a little blood from procedure. So wear a panty liner. Keep you posted!
I am 25 years old and had the Mirena inserted 3 months ago. I had tried the pill and the ring previously. The ring did not work for me and I found it difficult to remember to take my pill, even with an alarm. I have not had any children so the insertion of the mirena was definitely painful. It felt like i was having really bad period cramps x100.. I have a fairly high pain tolerance and I was not expecting that to hurt as bad as it did. However, the minute my doctor removed the clamps on my cervix and removed the speculum, it was instant relief. Small term pain for long term gain. I spotted for a few weeks (nothing a panty liner couldn't handle) and had some pretty bad cramps. My periods are basically non existent. I'll have a period but it's so light that all I need is a panty liner and I'm good. I'll have random cramping every so often that catches me off guard but it goes away fairly quickly. My partner said he can feel the IUD in certain sex positions but nothing too distracting. I've only had it bother me during sex once and it wasn't painful, just felt odd. I would recommend the mirena to anyone looking for hormonal, long term birth control. I love not having to w
I love Mirena. It was very effective during my 5 yeara. My only bad feedback, is, it is extremely painful for insertion. I cried during this because the pain was awful. And I am not a cry baby. I have a few tattoos and I was fine during that. I had my Mirena removed last week and that was painful also. I go back this Monday for a new Mirena because when they removed it, the Dr could not get the new one back in. So, need a week, and now I have to go thru this painful process again.. but, it's all worth it. I will take some pain medicine this next time for insertion. I highly recommended you take the advice of the doctor, and take the ibprofen.
I got the mirena almost a year ago and had it taken out about a month ago. I have never had kids and have only ever used the pill. I spotted heavily every single day for 3 months until I decided I was tired of it. I went to the doctor and they put me back on the pill in addition to the IUD to control my bleeding, and it actually helped me stop bleeding completely. I broke out with acne worse then I ever have when it was inserted, but this problem got better with the birth control and also acne vitamins. I didn't gain any extra weight as far as I could tell, and I am usually very prone to weight gain. My experience was bad because for me, sex was always slightly uncomfortable. My doctor was positive that it couldn't be the IUD, but since i've had it out, I haven't had any pain during sex. Also, I would get these excruciating cramps. Usually once a month I would suffer these cramps for a few days, and no medication seemed to help me. When I decided to have it out, my cramps were so bad I had to go to the emergency room to get it removed. I felt instantly better after! I know this works for some women, but if you have it and are having issues, I would recommend taking it out. For me,
I have only had it about 4 hours. It hurt from the time they measured my cervix and still hurts!! I got dizzy and was sweating and shaking so bad... I hope these cramps go away, I would not ever do this again knowing the pain I've had already!!
I just had he Mirena put in yesterday, after reading many reviews I was a littttle more then worried. It was not the highest point in my life, however, I was quick and relatively painless. I was warned about serious cramping which, I did not experience until much later in the day. A few cramps made me double over in pain. If you've had a baby, light contractions would be the best way to describe it. Those faded with ibprophen. Slept fine, more cramping this morning, I'd say equivalent to last night. I obviously haven't had it in long enough to say it's effective just wanted to ease the minds of women going to have it done. Also, slight spotting but it has not been a big deal...yet! Best of luck to all of you!!
I'm relieved to read these reviews knowing now I was not alone. My Dr made it out to seem I was the rare case. My iud shifted after I don't know how long and caused me huge discomfort. I had it in for a year. It ended my relationship with my partner, caused bleeding during sex and after, made me gain weight, had to buy so much period product every month. I will never use birth control as recommended by drs ever again. They're just experimenting with our bodies.
If you are looking for a low maintenance, effective contraceptive then the Mirena is very good. The IUD was recommended to me by my doctor as I was suffering with fatigue and very heavy periods. It has been excellent and my periods stopped straight away. I have had the IUD for a year and until now have never had weight issues, even after the birth of my son. However I've recently gained around 12 pounds with no changes to my lifestyle. If you are prone to acne it will also make it worse. These are the only side effects I've had however it has really knocked my confidence!! I do not believe that only 5 percent of women gain weight as I've read lots of forums where many women are reporting a gain. Maybe the health service publish inaccurate statistics as it's a cheap contraception and less of a burden to the health service???
I was terrified about the insertion, and while it was painful, it was not nearly as bad as I expected. I've only had my mirena for a few days now and I am still cramping, but it isn't nearly as bad as my regular periods (thanks, endo) and I have already stopped bleeding from the procedure. I can't wait to feel the relief from my horrible periods. If you are considering getting mirena, do it! And don't be afraid of the insertion!
I had my Mirena IUD inserted two weeks ago today. The insertion was quite painful, but the pain only lasted about 10 seconds total. It felt like an extremely strong persistent cramp. Definitely bearable, so don't get too nervous about that. That day, the cramps were awful and I couldn't do much else but try to circumvent them. However, they were completely gone the next day and I haven't had any cramps since the day of insertion. I've had 0 side effects thus far except for daily spotting, which I was expecting. Pretty positive experience so far.
I have had the Mirena for about 3 years now and at first i loved it. I would get a period every 2 months or so, in between i would have some spotting at times but it was so mild. My opinion has changed since than, within the last year i have gained 20 pounds and i cant seem to get it off with exercise or dieting. About two months ago I had my menstrual for a whole month It would stop one day, then return the next. Just recently I've experienced pain during intercourse and my sex drive is so slim. my partner can also feel the string or whatever with certain positions even after getting it trimmed. about 2 years ago i started getting depressed on and off, I would cry for no reason at all. I have experienced back pain and hair loss as well but i thought that was due to having an epidural and the weather in AZ. Well i have decided to have it removed this month and i am so happy. From now on i will just stick with the old fashion way of doing things and just use a condom. These birth controls always have side effects. (i also had the paraguard copper IUD that one was really bad I would bleed none stop with painful cramps)
I had the Mirena for about a year and a half, for birth control, everything was awesome. No periods! No babies! The reason it was only a year and a half is because I started having unbearable back pain. I stayed in bed as long as I possibly could, day in and day out. It made me miserable. I finally figured out that mirena was the cause. I didn't have insurance and ended up taking it out myself and it felt better within minutes!!! I'm not saying anyone should do that. I just couldn't take it...was awwwwful!!
I had MIrena inserted almost 2 weeks ago (11/5/16) and so far I really do like it. The procedure itself wasn't TOO bad, but as other reviews mentioned, mild cramping did occur and it was a bit uncomfortable- obviously. The procedure lasted about 5 minutes and i didnt cramp anymore after that. I did go home and put a pad on because i was bleeding, however not enough to even soak/need to change the pad. I wore the pad for a few hours and wasn't bleeding anymore. Since then, i have spotted a couple times but nothing more than a panty liner is needed. I love not having to remember to take a pill everyday and while on the pill i noticed i was dealing with back pain pretty often, havent had any since! I havent had it in long enough to go through a real period (here's hoping i dont get one), but im sure it cant be too bad. I will update if anything changes, but for now- i LOVE this!
I have had mirena for about two weeks or so and I love it! I only spotted the first two days after the procedure and I didnt have anymore cramping after the first day. Also my sex drive is through the roof. The only down side I'd say was the procedure it's self. I have never given birth so it was a little bit more painful for me but definitely worth it, I experienced some cramping and nausea immediately following the procedure. I would recommend if you have not had children before going with skyla it is a little smaller but mirena would still be fine. I would also recommend taking about 600mg of ibuprofen about a half an hour before he procedure and having something small to eat. The doctors also gave me some ibuprofen after the procedure. I would recommend mirena for just about anyone looking to get long lasting birth control that is very reliable.
I have been on Mirena for almost 2 years (going to be 2 years in Feb 15, 2017). The insertion was quite uncomfortable and it was just a cramping pain that lasted for 10-20 seconds at the most. My doctor did tell me to go home afterwards and get some rest because you will bleed after maybe 30mns-1 hr after insertion. I did feel a little light headed and had cramps and bleeded for about 3 days or so. Long story short, I like the birth control, I don't have any kids, I'm 22 years old and before i had birth control I weighed about 115lbs. Now I weight about 125, I feel very dissapointed because I was not expecting to gain this much weight, which doesn't seem a lot for some people due to the fact that I'm 5feet 6 inches, but it really affected me physically, mentally and emotionally. I got depressed with this birth control, emotional, and very bad mood swings. This may be TMI but i get this smelly vaginal discharge ALMOST EVERY DAY, it gets so annoying that i got to the point where I am not sure what to do. I can't be douching every time I want to have sex with my bf, all because I get this smelly vaginal discharge and it's embarrassing, gross, and annoying! I hope I'm not the only one
DON'T LET THE REVIEWS SCARE YOU!! I am 29 with no children. This is my second IUD. My first one was the Flex-T which I believe was copper (It had no hormones). My first Copper IUD caused a lot of cramping for me which is why they suggested the Mirena! I had it inserted by my Gynecologist. He was great. The whole procedure took about 5minutes total! It wasn't too bad. It felt very similar to a pap, the only difference was there was a bit of cramping when he removed my Copper IUD and the moment the Mirena was being placed but of course that cramping stopped as soon as he removed his tools. I was okay to drive home and had no problems. A couple hours later I did have some very intense cramping on and off.. this lasted for roughly 48 hours. I do have some mild cramping but nothing more then regular period pains. When I had it inserted I was on the 2nd day of my period. I would usually have 10-14 day periods with spotting at the start and end. My period are usually quite heavy. The Mirena instantly lowered the amount of blood loss which was GREAT for me. I've noticed I haven't had any of my migraines that usually come along the time of my period either which is another BONUS!! Ove
I had Mirena inserted eight months ago. Not painful and no cramps, but I have been bleeding and/or spotting everyday since. Interfering with my sex life big time. My doctor put me on birth control pills in an effort to stop the spotting, but I am actually bleeding more now since taking the pill. I am beyond frustrated and will likely have it removed very soon. Dr. thinks the IUD may be irritating my lining causing it to bleed. This has been very irritating and frustrating and I need another alternative.
I had the Mirena inserted at my 6 week check up after I had my daughter in January 2015. The insertion wasn't horribly painful, I did get a little lightheaded, but that was about it for the insertion side effects. I breastfed my daughter for 15 months, and during that time, the mirena was wonderful. I did not get a period, I had little to no side effects, and I was extremely happy with it! Once I stopped breastfeeding is when the horrible side effects came in to play. I started getting my period, which would either last for 4 days or 12 days, no in between. I had horrible anxiety/nervousness and moodiness for a week after my cycle started, I had back pain, acne, and cramping with my cycles as well. I have not been able to lose any weight, I've actually gained weight over the past year. The biggest side effect that is 100% from the mirena is hair loss. I am losing chunks of hair, it's absolutely disgusting. I was tested for every other hormone disorder out there by an endocrinologist and they were all normal, so I FINALLY decided that it must be from my mirena and I got it removed yesterday. Today already, I feel less bloated, and just all around better. I know that some people have
I have used the mirena as it seems to be the most consistent release of hormones, therefor helping mood swings, acne, weight gain etc. I just had 1 removed and another placed. Never had children, and pelvis falls toe floor and to a side, so it's a bit more uncomfortable than some women. But, nothing that extra water and advil cant soothe. It is def worth 1 day of uncomfortable for 5 years of relief lol. My periods mostly stopped basically was spotting for a day or two after year 1. Prior to year 1, still light but lasted a day or so longer. My strings to the first got "lost" so dr. (Highly recommend an ob/gyn) used ultrasound to locate and and get it before replacing it. So, a few negatives but well worth it!
So, I've only had mirena for a few weeks now and it's been a nightmare! I've been bleeding heavily nonstop the entire time and cramping so bad that I've missed work and other events from the pain. Not to mention me and my boyfriend haven't been able to have sex in weeks and I'm extremely moody and irritable. I ate an entire bottle of Ibuprofen in a week and after that I went back to the doctor to get pain medicine and she prescribed me some expensive period medicine that doesn't help whatsoever. I'm getting it taken back out this week.
Very painful to get inserted. I have IC and this helped alot with pain. It is more painful if you have not had children. If you have bot had children ask your doctor for a pill to soften your cervix. This helped me tons. The insertion is quick. The pain is like intense cramps, nausea and feeling like you need to pass a bowel movement. The pain lasted about 4 days. The worst of it was on thevday of the procedure. I was told having the insertion while you are on your cycle is much less painful. I get occassional spotting and deep pentatative sex is painful at times. I have this product and highly recommend it. I have heard horror stories. One of my coworkers had mirena but it got stuck in one of her ovaries. She just went to a family physician though. I went to a speciaist at my obgyn's office whose sole job was birth control insertions, monoriting and extraction. She had me sign a wavier informed me how many years she has done this and how often she does them. She had me ask questions before the procedure and gave me an after hours number incase of emergency. I can hobestly say i had a fantastic experience. According to my obgyn it does matter how often a physican does the procedu
It's only been about 3 hours since I've gotten, but let me tell you about these cramps... oh baby. Ever since she dilated me cramps have been killing me. I hear it only last a day or two. But oh sh*t.
this is my second review (10/18/2016 review...I'm 51 I'm not premenopausal yet but i have the start of uterine cancer abnormal cells and thick lining abnormal cycle and heavy flow... my doctor suggested this IUD instead of pills or injections to reduce the growth because it doesn't enter the blood stream when i was younger i had a bad reaction to birth control pills... please scroll down to read the rest of the first review) .... my second period has started since the insertion its much lighter just a little more then spotting so far 8 th day hope it doesn't last 23 days like last month... however the weight lose and the morning sickness has continued.. the morning sickness is less but smells still trigger it and i only want to eat cheese pizza but the last few days i have felt like i am lactating and my son noticed that my shirt was wet and now i also have not really painful but still kinda hurtie feeling ...you know the buzzie let down feeling in both breasts you get when ur breast feeding and a baby cries... i googled mirena and lactating and found other women have also experienced lactating while using the IUD htt
I've had this for 3 years now and it's great. I haven't experienced any side effects..my periods are moderate.. no problems during sex and no babies...i recommend Mirena it's a great birth control
it's been a year now since i had mine put in,no regrets at all,had bit of discomfort getting it done but then was fine,had spotting for couple of weeks but then stopped,was nervous but iv'e went through worse so just relaxed,went with it,was fine. Ive not put on weight,in fact i actually lost it,not had a period for about 10 months now,don't miss them at all,feel so much better,more energy,don't have to worry about them appearing just before my holidays,heavy,clots,painful,feeling dirty,smelly,don't get PMT now,no bad mood swings,feeling depressed a week before anymore,it's great,only negative thing i'd say is that sometimes i get a funny strong smell down there with discharge but not all the time thankfully ,otherwise would be getting it out,so far so good,happy with it staying in there if things don't change and stay as good as they are.I know not for everyone and won't suit everybody's body unfortunately but my advice is......Just Try It...Give it Time....Be patient
I've had Mirena for almost three years and the last year has been especially bad. Weight gain, tender breasts, constant bleeding, constant cramps, and constant yeast infections. I'm having it removed finally and can't wait. I wish I could have done it sooner but my Dr insisted I keep it in. I'm also done listening to Dr's who think they know my body better than I do.
got it put it a few weeks ago. the procedure did not hurt, but that was because i opted to be sedated and knew i could not get it done if i weren't. glad i did that. as for side effects, i do notice a lot of cramping but they told me thats to be expected the first few months while your body is getting used to it. i'm a little concerned about the whole string poking my partner during sex thing, so i haven't really had any sex or stuck anything up there because i'm scared it might move or worse, come out. anyway so far so good, i just am using this as a birth control. no babies for me please!
I really love the mirena. I have gained some weight which im not fond of otherwise it is great!
I just got the mirena put in today morning. The process itself was very quick. It did not hurt as nearly as much as I thought it would. I felt a couple of pinches and that's it. And I am very pain with pain. I have never had a baby either. And now it has been around 3 hours and I'm doing well. I barely feel any cramping. Hope the rest goes well too. And I will post an update after cause there are so many negative reviews that it does seem scary. But give it a try!
Chills, itching, mood swings, abnormal bleeding, cramps, nauseous ,breasts, are very tender and back pain
I had Mirena for 4 years and loved it. I had regular, normal flow periods during the time I had it. I did have to get it shorten for my partner once.
I had my Mirena inserted 2 months ago and have been bleeding every day . When they inserted the Mirena it was very painful with cramps and I've been extremely bloated every since Moody as hell and lack of sex drive so yeah I would give this 0 Stars if that would let me know only thing is actually good for is preventing pregnancy
I had it for 4 and a half years. Getting it inserted was very mild cramps. I didnt have a period at all, rarely would i have any spotting. I did start getting yeast infections on my 3rd year and i never had them before that. Had mild pain while having intercourse if my partner was being a little rough. It took me 6 months to get pregnant after getting it removed. Overall loved it and recommend it!
I almost didn't get Mirena after I read countless awful reviews, but I'm so glad I did! I had implanon before this and experienced quite a bit of irregularity with my period. I was looking for another long term birth control option that wouldn't cause as much irregularity and Mirena has been perfect. I was most nervous about the insertion but it barely hurt. I had cramps for a few hours afterwards but was completely able to work on my feet. I haven't experienced any weird spotting since getting mirena.
I have had no major issues.
I had Mirena inserted at my six week postpartum checkup and my daughter is now 4.5 and still an only child. Mirena did its job. I love not having to remember to take a pill, replace a ring, get a shot, or have something in my arm. The positive side effect imo, is not having a period. I haven't used a pad or tampon in years! The negative side effects include (very) mild cramping every once and a while and it is usually after sex. Other than that, I forget that Mirena is there. When I first got Mirena inserted, my husband could feel the strings and I got them trimmed back. Since then, no issues. now that my 5 years are almost over, I'm thinking about getting the 3 year iud if we don't try for another child. Some of my friends have had Mirena and each of us have had different experiences with it. Mine just happened to be the most uneventful and positive! Everyone's body reacts differently so keep that in mind and just know that this is a personal decision. I just wanted to leave a positive review among the sea of people that have horror stories. Hope this helps!
Very painful at first. Proceduress painful for non child bearing women. When I work out I still get sharp pains and I've had for 5 months.
I had lots of cramping at first. I bled almost every day for the first four months and at least three to four days a week up to six months. I still bleed nearly every time I have intercourse and randomly through the month. I am bloated with sensitive breasts at least two weeks out of the month. My breasts fluctuate from a small B to a C cup through the month. Recently, each month after my period, at least months five, six, and seven I have had a very unpleasant odor in my vagina. Month five, I went to my gynecologist because I thought I had a bad infection just to find out all of the cultures were clear and the smell went away, just to return the next two months shortly after my period ended and then it went away on it's own again. I have never experienced anything like that and it is quite embarrassing. I have also experienced pain in the area of my right ovary multiple months. My gynecologist checked for cysts but found nothing by the time I got the ultrasound done three days later (the earliest appointment that I could get because of Labor Day weekend). I don't have to worry about taking a pill every day so that is nice. I do wonder if the reason that it is so effective has
I'm writing just about the insert because all the reviews scared me. I was terrified to have it placed because I've never had a baby before. I read all the reviews and they sounded horrible. I have PTSD so any vaginal exam even a Pap Smear I cry. She prescribed 1mg of Ativan about 30 minutes before the procedure. I held my husbands hand and it was like a tiny pinch for five seconds and that was it. I promise I'm a huge baby but I've had worst period cramps then the IUD going in. If I can do it you can too! I was so relieved I thought it would be terrible. Don't let all these reviews scare you. It was worth it.
Constant pain in ovaries and uterus! I now have a complex ovarian cyst and have had zero energy! Had iud removed yesterday and already feel my energy coming back! Constant, 24/7, burning in pelvis is now gone.
I had the Mirena inserted in August 2015 a year. A year later I have gained 20lbs with no change in eating and I actually work out more with the hopes to get rid of the weight gain. I have very bad acne which I did not have previously on bc pills. I am also very emotional and depressed at times. I am an emotional person, but this is worse! I went in this thinking my bc pill days were over with, but unfortunately I am needing to go back to pills. I am having this nightmare removed next month. When your children see your moods changing and crying ALL the time for no reason is not good. Everyone if different and this is not for me!
I decided to get the mirena after evaluating my birth control options. I hadon't it inserted almost 2 months ago and although I did have some cramping and spotting, it has been worth it. The insertion was slightly uncomfortable, but I did start cramping bad afterwards and for a few days afterwards. I also started spotting three days after the insertion but that only lasted maybe 3 weeks. Yes, it was a nuisance but I have not spotted any more in the past 3 weeks. But I have developed a discharge that it sometimes watery (TMI...I know) but it is slowly stopping. The doctor said this was normal. I'd rather deal with this than spotting. It hasn't been long since I had the mirena placed, but so far I am highly satisfied. I read review after reviews much of them being horrible. So, if you are thinking about getting an IUD know everyones body is different and side effects go away. Yes, it sucks to deal with it for a while, some longer than others, but it will be all worth it.
I love Mirena. I was super nervous about getting it, but my campus doc recommended it due to my paranoia of getting pregnant, and my already high risk of blood clots (I have really high cholesterol naturally and pills increase the risk!). I got the implant when I was 19 (am now 20), and the procedure was painful, like a really weird cramp. Really not too bad though - it's an individual thing, though. It was super easy for me. The actual procedure took maybe 2-3 minutes and I was out the door. For a couple days after it just felt like a normal period with cramps. Ever since I've felt great. I haven't had any periods since the first month, just random spotting from time to time. It's great to not have to worry!
I am 19 years old, never been pregnant, and I had my Mirena inserted on May 21, 2016. The insertion was uncomfortable, but not painful. It felt just like a Pap smear, but the whole procedure took around 10 minutes. Later that day I had light cramps and bleeding, but my OBGYN told me to take Tylenol an hour before I came to the office; so I think it made everything less painful. I was spotting on and off for three months. Since September I have my period back - it's so much lighter, no more blood clots or strong cramps. Sex was a little painful in some positions, but worked out everything with my partner and there was no more problems. Definitely recommend it.
I had Mirena for five months before getting it removed today. The insertion was incredibly painful for me, and took me down for about 3 hours. The real issues began about 2 months in, when I started getting dizzy spells and extreme nausea. I took about 4 different pregnancy tests before I was convinced I was not pregnant. Throughout the next three months, I had cyclical dizzy spells, nausea, cramping, bloating, and migraines. My bowel movements also changed dramatically - consistency, regularity, etc., and I did experience both acne (which I had never had issues with before - I'm 28) and weight gain. Mirena also made me very emotional. I know a lot of friends that Mirena works great for - your body's reaction to birth control is a very individual thing. I was highly sensitive to the hormones in higher dose pills as well, so I would say - if you are struggling with side effects of the pill, a hormonal IUD might not be right for you.
I'm 51 I'm not premenopausal yet but i have the start of uterine cancer abnormal cells and thick lining abnormal cycle and heavy flow... my doctor suggested this IUD instead of pills or injections to reduce the growth because it doesn't enter the blood stream when i was younger i had a bad reaction to birth control pills .... insertion hurt but not badly and not as bad as the biopsy that hurt like hell.... the side effects i have noticed is what seems to me as being 24 hour morning sickness smell of food and motion make it worse i feel pukie this hasn't stopped yet -- i have had the mirena for 5 weeks now my period started the 7 days after insertion 23 days bleeding but it was light .. I've lost 7 pounds in a month but i don't know if its the IUD that is causing it ..i have read forums about mirena and weight lost but i can't confirm that is the cause or its cause i feel morning sick... .. i have acne now dark purple marks on my cheeks that hurt..... i used to have clear skin a bump on the surface once in awhile nothing like this....i also feel dizzy when i first stand thats all i have noticed so far ..
I waited for 15 solid months with Mirena before I wrote this review. I read MANY reviews before having the Mirena inserted and some were downright scary, but anyways this is my experience with Mirena and I hope it can help others. The insertion is highly uncomfortable, but I wouldn't go as far as saying it is painful. Think of it as a pap-smear that lasted 10 minutes too long. The whole day after insertion I had cramps, nothing debilitating but definitely unpleasant enough to keep me in bed watching movies and eating junk food, word of advice don't plan anything for the rest of the day after your Mirena insertion. By the next day I was completely fine and returned to work without a problem. The first 3 months SUCKED, I had a brownish discharge that smelled awful and the spotting lasted the full three months. Along with the discharge I found sex to be a little painful in certain positions. But I told myself I would at least give Mirena a full year. After about 6 months the discomfort during sex, and irregular spotting went away. My period was EXTREMELY regular, so much so that I could pinpoint the date and time-of-day I would be getting my period. For me these periods were only ligh
After many friends/family member had discussed their great experiences with Mirena as birth control- I went to my OBGYN and had it inserted. My body immediately had a very negative reaction- cramping, vomiting, nausea. Within a day I felt better, but sex was uncomfortable for months. It was nice not to have to take a pill, and my periods were very light. However, I started to gain weight- I gained over 10 lbs in the year I was on Mirena. My OBGYN swore that she had not heard of this before (even though it is the #3 side effect listed on their website). I worked out, went on a strict diet, nothing help- kept gaining weight. Finally, over a month ago I decided to get it removed- since then I have lost 6 lbs and feel great. Back on the pill, but I would never recommend Mirena as birth control.
Just got it done yesterday.... So I was really scared. But I have been frustrated for some years now- bleeding forever for months and using the thickest pads on the market. So I was borderline blood transfusion, and I was prescribed iron pills first. Took birth control pills, but it did not stop the bleeding. Bleeding heavily for two to three months non-stop is not ideal and it sucks. It made me weak, sick, tired and delirious. I refused Mirena first, due to fear of side effects. But the constant bleeding, and then the pain... The pain felt like someone was carving the flesh out of my body, and my heart rate went up to the 150's at the ER from the pain, I could not take it any longer. My back popped from the blood clots coming out of me. So the procedure was to me quite painful, it felt like, someone stuck a long thin needle inside of me, so like a live abortion with anesthesia is the pain level. I don't need any birht control, I am celibate, but this is due to my perimenopause at the age of 43. I am afraid of weight gain, but I am going to exercise and have to watch my diet. I will observe my hair and my mood swings. This was the last resort. I took depovera before to stop my
Hello, I am writing to share incase there are other women looking for insight like I did post insertion. I am going to very honest, and tmi, so please be kind. I am 32, and had the mirena inserted 4 months ago post medical abortion. My husband and I are not wanting children, and were deeply saddened when we had this oopsie. That being said....also tired of condoms. Mirena.....oh wow. Insertion was intense, but ends quickly after a couple F***!!!! The first two days were a dream...thought that was it! But then....the bleeding began, and cramps so bad Tylenol was not helping, burnt my skin with hot water bottle, and didn't sleep...went to the hospital thinking something was wrong. They said it was all good. This lasted 2 weeks. Then spotting and cramping for 1 week followed by passing of tissue (uterine lining) and heavy bleeding again for 3 weeks! Then spotting....for another month! Sex drive, out the door, felt like a horrible human and this was karma..... Then it all stopped, one month of bliss, and I just got a normal period. Lighter than normal (yay!) and only a bit of cramping where I didn't need to take drugs. (yay!) 4 months in. I thought I would never make i
I had my Mirena inserted on 10-12-16. Insertion was a breeze! Mild cramps only. I started to get a head ache late in the day after Insertion and today around the same time. Not sure it its related to the Mirena.
I rated mirena 4 stars because this is only my 2nd day on it so I can't speak for the effect of it in the future. I got my mirena yesterday afternoon at planned parenthood. I chose to be apart of the University of Utah study on women's access to birth control so I got it for free which was awesome! My nurse at PP raved about her Mirena and convinced me to do it right then! I'm so glad I did. I have been wanting an IUD for almost a year now, but have been too scared of the insertion pain to try. My nurse talked to me about this, saying that if my body is made to endure hours and hours of that pain to give birth to a child, I can handle 30 seconds of that same pain. She was so right! I got the mirena inserted right before my period was about to start, if that makes a difference. I laid on the table nervous out of my mind to the point I was going to cry. They inserted the speculum, which I didn't feel except for the coldness of the tool. They then measured my cervix, which I do have to be honest and say it did hurt ALOT. BUT... the pain is just basically an intense period cramp and it's only for about 15 seconds. The nurse then told me the hardest part was over and inserted my mirena.
Every woman is different so I'm just sharing my experience. I don't know when or how this happened but apparently mine came out without me knowing and I ended up pregnant. This was a horrible experience and wish it upon no one.
I had Mirena inserted shortly after the birth of my second child, I've used it for the past 8 years. I was breastfeeding when it was inserted so I have not had a period for the past 8 years. The second device was inserted and the strings irritated my partner, intercourse became too uncomfortable for him. I had the strings cut back, that did not work. I would have had it removed and replaced but there was no guarantee that we would not have the same problem. I am having it removed and replaced with Implanon (wish me luck). I did not experience any side effects, neither the insertion nor removal was painful --a little uncomfortable, but not painful. I LOVE Mirena, I'd recommend it to anyone.
I had the Mirena inserted at my 6 week postpartum mark. I had no pain, just discomfort when it was inserted, like getting a Pap smear. I have had it now for 3 months. I had very light spotting for about 3 weeks but no cramping. I have hardly an appetite, so I've lost around 10 pounds. I'm breastfeeding so I haven't had a period yet. I highly recommend Mirena. I've been on the multiple different pills before, the patch and this is by far my favorite.
After reading so many different experiences from other women, I have to say that I've had a wonderful experience with Mirena since starting it in November 2014. Every woman responds to it differently. I will say that the insertion is painful and does cause cramping (equal to what you feel during your period). It wasn't horrible though and I even taught a cycling class on the same day mine was inserted. For the first 6 months I had spotting occasionally along with a regular, slightly lighter period. After that I've hardly noticed that it's in there. I continue to go about my normal life and still get a normal period. It has been so convenient and I definitely like it more than the NuvaRing, which made me very moody. It's been the perfect birth control and although I have not had kids, my body has adapted to this wonderfully. I should add that they suggest that women who have had kids prior to insertion are a better fit. If you feel this is right for you, give it a try. I'm certainly glad that I didn't let online reviews scare me away. The great thing is, if you react badly to it, you can always have it removed.
Insertion was not painful at all. A pap smear is more uncomfortable. I've had two babies with no drugs so it could be I have a high pain tolerance. I kept expecting pain and cramping, but never got it. I've had light bleeding probably 15 days total of the first 45. I've read that is normal. No complaints.
I have made Mirena since November 2014. After being diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome (pos) in 2011, I have had issues with taking a pill daily both birth control and other progestin pills prescribed before so chose this option. I had severe discomfort when it was first put in although little to no bleeding occurred- that was mentioned before inserted. Following getting Mirena I have not had a period. I have had a few times where a sharp stabbing pain has occurred (noticed it only occurs when I have sat a certain way and pain has lasted around 2-15 mins at most). I think this is a great form of birth control seeing I am babyless) . Although I am experiencing mood swings, almost constant anxiety, and little to no sex drive. If you and others can handle the bitchiness, and risks of other symptoms that go along with this iud then it is so worth it.
DO NOT HAVE THIS INSERTED!!!!PERIOD!!UNLESS U DO NOT WANT TO BE ABLE TO FUNCTION, HAVE INSOMIA, HORRIBLE MOOD SWINGS THEN DO NOT HAVE THIS DONE!!
I had the Mirena inserted in January 2014 I bled constantly for 6 months. I haven't had a normal menstrual cycle since. I have horrible cramps, headaches, my neck and arm hurts and I've experienced severely blurred vision a few times. I definitely wouldn't recommend this for anyone. Im having this thing removed ASAP!
I got mirena as a form of birth control and to help lessen my periods. so far it has been a month. I had a baby shortly before getting it put in and I hadn't had a period because I am breastfeeding. well ever since the day it was put in i have had a period that has not stopped not even one day. it is very annoying and I have conflicting feelings because one of my points for getting it was the point that my doctor said I should get a shorter period or no period at all and now I have had one for a month. it is a considerably lighter period then I am used to, but I would have stuck with the 5 day heavy, then the month+ long drip.
Getting the mirena IUD was the worst decision of my life. I have insomnia, anxiety, acne, mood fluctuations, bloating, fatigue, cramping, bleeding 20-25 days of the month. I have had it for about 10 months and the side effects are increasing where I cannot function. I would have removed it myself by now if I was not so scared of the " mirena crash" I can't believe this is allowed to be on the market.
I had Mirena for 19 months. It is a GREAT birth control option for people like me who won't remember to take pills every day at the same time. I was very hopeful when I had it inserted. The insertion was, hands down, one of the most painful experiences of my life that didn't end when I left my doctors office. I experienced cramps for MONTHS afterward. I repeatedly went back to my doctor for cramps, differing lengths of the strings, weird bleeding, did I mention SEVERE cramps?! I stopped having regular periods after 2 months, but the symptoms continued well past the 4 month mark. Everything was hunky dory until the 15 month mark when I began experiencing the severe cramps again. I returned to dr only to be told that the strings were missing. After an ultrasound (where they found multiple cysts) and finding a doctor willing to try to remove it, I was told that the strings had migrated INTO the top of my uterus. It took two office visits (with one failed attempt) and A LOT of pain to get this sucker out. It's a great drug, it just didn't work with my body. I still recommend it since it is so effective and easy to use. Many of my friends have it and love it! It's worth trying. Birth co
Made my hair fall out in patches. Every time I ran my fingers through my hair, I would have a huge chunk of hair in my hand.. also I completely lost my sex drive.. I went 2 months and still had no desire to want it!
Please let me know if this if this is right choice for me? I have had the para-guard and the birth-control pills and both have not worked for me. The para-guard fell out of my uterus after one year and the birth-control pill effected me in a bad way hormonally. Any information about the Mirena would be great. <3
I am 50 years old and got the Mirena in March 2016. I was told the lining of my uterus was growing too quickly between periods and was told I had fibroids. I had a D & C and my doctor suggested the Mirena because she said she could guarantee I would be back in 6 months needing another D & C . I questioned her about the things I had read online and she said she would not pay attention to things online and said her office has inserted thousands of these with minimal side effects. Sine then I have gained weight had minimal cramping on and off and have not gone one day in over 6 months without wearing either a tampon or pad. I constantly have some sort of discharge . She has checked me several times for infections and it has always been negative. The only thing it has done was decrease the heavy 5-7 day periods with severe cramping to very light everyday periods with very light cramping. When I questioned this she said it would take approximately 3 months to regulate and she also said. Well it's doing its job, it's shedding the lining of your uterus. Screw her. I feel uninformed and extremely disappointed. I would NOT recommend this to anyone.
I got on the pill in 2010 to have control over my period. ( I'd go two or three months without having one naturally prior to the pill). It a pain to remember to take it at the same time every day. I switched to the Ortho Patch. I loved this form of BC until I had an episode of numbness in one side of my body, and lost my ability to talk or reason. Followed was my first and worst migraine. Thankfully it was not a stroke and my husband brought me to the E.R. I continued to have migraines ubtil one doctor told me I shouldnt be on an estrogen pill if I experience migraines with aura. So I scheduled my appointment for IUD placement. I was nervous but I couldnt have debilating migraines. The insertation wasnt terrible - 16Sep2016 I took 800 ibuprofen an hour prior. My Dr. also gave me a shot of lidocain in my cervix. I would compare it to a PAP Smear. No, Its not comfortable by any means but theres a little bit of cramping & its over quick. I wasnt dizzy or had nausea. I spotted for 3 days and only used a thin liner each day. After the insertation day - I havent taken anything for cramps and no migraine yet. hope this helps!
so i decided to go with mirena its about 3 months now going on 4 not sure exactly what is suppose to do besides prevent pregnancy. one thing i did notice i did loose couple of pounds and my periods r a bit longer now 7 days when i was informed about this method they did mention i would get lighter periods idk still waiting on them maybe in the next few months.........
I'm 46. I have two children and have always had heavy, flooding periods greater than 7 days, a superplus tampon and a overnight pad every two hours. I did 22 hours of natural childbirth so those who said it's painful don't know what they are talking about. A little uncomfortable insertion and a few cramps, no biggie at all if you've had real problems. My flooding stopped 2 days after I got it. I feel great!
My story is on the extreme side of things, and I realize this is not and will not be the case with many women - but I DO have to say something. I had my Mirena device put in the 5th of July, 2016. Procedure was simple and for me relatively pain-free. Keep in mind that I am was a D1 athlete and now play over seas professionally. I have had my fair share of surgeries and ailments over the years. But NOTHING compared to the sheer frustration I have experienced with Mirena. Once the device was in, I started bleeding - as normal. Side effects can last from 3-6 months, so I was not worried. 2 weeks after the device was inserted I was still using between 2-3 tampons a day. I kept telling myself this was normal and all of my other girl friends said that it effected them differently. Fast forward to the end of August. STILL going through 2-3 regular tampons a day. I begin camp, which is 2-3 practices a day with my team in Europe. I cannot move my body. I am exhausted. I am physically unable to do the things I was once able to do. I am STRUGGLING to catch my breath. After an entire summer of working out, I should be kicking my teammates asses. Instead I am getting weird looks of disa
I am 20 years old. I got the Mirena IUD inserted in November 2015. I have been suffering from Endometriosis for about 7 years now, and have tried a LOT of other options--I hated birth control pills (I was on Yaz for about 2 years and experienced a lot of nausea, mood swings, and still had bad cramps- basically it added more pain), I tried a non-contraceptive hormonal pill (nausea and dizziness), and I was on the Evra patch for about 3-4 years (doctors wanted me to stop getting my period, but I still got it every month with Evra). ANYWAY, I requested that I be put to sleep while they inserted the Mirena (thankfully, especially after reading these horrific comments about the pain!). From the second I woke up, the pain associated with my Endometriosis disappeared. The downfall of my experience: Acne and weight gain. The acne came out of nowhere and was spread on my face and my back. This is currently being treated successfully with Biacna. The weight gain....I'll just need to motivate myself to stick to a diet. I definitely would not consider removing the IUD simply because of these two side effects. The main point of sharing my experience is to say that Mirena is definitely a
THE WORST THING EVER..... I have had 3-4 weeks periods, and I am not talkingredients about spotting either. I have pain in my lower abdomin and no one wants to take this thing out even if I pay them. The side effects and prolong bleeding is not normal, please don't let the doctors fool you. I am not sure why this is not a good birthday control pills for women with fibroids but they don't tell you that Bleed away they say, or your period will stop after 6 months to a year.. you have to let your body adjust to it.. well heck it has been a year, 2 months, 3 days, 14 hours, and 4 seconds and my dang body is not adjusted to this thing yet. If you are thinking about getting it go over everything with your doctor ans hell get a 2,3 4 opinion before you put yourself through the this pain and torture.
I had Mirena after my first but less then a month. It said slipping out. 2012. But now my after my second is now 7 months old I'm trying again. Trying again. They said when you've had children its better and in u 20's. Placement was little to no pain for me. Mild cramping when my doc measured my womb. Little dizzy after and mild cramping. Well have a ultrasound in a month to check placenent. Hopefully it stay in. I love the idea of not taking pills
After having two children I wanted a BC method that wouldn't affect breastfeeding so I opted for the Mirena IUD. I'd heard good reviews from close family so I opted to try it. Immediately after insertion I could feel the device but thought that it would go away. NOPE! 6 months later I could still feel it. The side effects were mild and I could appreciate the clearer skin and lack of maintenance but then I began to get BV from the strings and this was super annoying. One evening while doing the check to make sure that the device was in place, I felt the bottom of the device. The next morning I had to have it removed because it was being expelled. Granted this may be an individual perspective. Unfortunately this device did not work for me and had more draw backs than benefits. Would not recommend. On the bright side, the removal was a breeze!
I passed out from the pain of insertion. I am 34, and have never had a child. It was horrifying. I wanted to love it, it has been 6 months. At first I had very extreme cramps which I'm told is part of inserting a foreign object in your uterus. My body did not like it (and for reference I am very healthy and work out 4 times a week). The cramping was worse than my regular period cramps...sharp, intense pain. I kept hoping they would subside, which they sort of have after 6 months but I still need to take extra strength Advil st least 4 times a week for these cramps. It's awful. Also, I read so much about how Mirena doesn't affect weight so I was surprised to gain 15 in the past 6 months. I actually work out more now! No hange in eating habits and then discovered there is indeed a group of women who gained weight and immediately lost it one the Mirena was removed. Everyone is different but I only got it due to reading positive reviews like the ones on this website so - food for thought. I'm having it removed next week. Had a much better experience with birth control pills.
I have a two month old baby & I wanted a birth control that was safe for breastfeeding and one that I didn't have to remember everyday because I tend to forget those kind of things. My midwife suggested the mirena iud. The insertion was painless. I couldn't feel much if anything at all. I had some spotting after insertion along with a few mild cramps. No big deal. I absolutely love it so far. I can't feel it, I don't have to remember it, and it last for 5 years. I think it's perfect for mom whom have had babies recently & don't want to become pregnant again any time soon.
I am 25 with a 3 month old son. For me, placement was not painful. I had what felt like early contractions maybe twice and then it was over. I also happened to get the Mirena placed on the same day Mother Nature made her arrival which can make the process easier from what my doctor said.
I'll start out by saying I'm 19 and have never had a child so insertion was probably the most pain I've ever been in. I ended up vomiting in the parking lot afterwards. The first week was off and on hell with bad cramps and bleeding but by the second week it was minor spotting and low-grade cramps. It has officially been 5 weeks since insertion and I LOVE it. The pain was worth it. My hormonal acne is all but gone, my sex drive has gone back to normal (maybe even higher, but i'm not complaining), I no longer suffer from vaginal dryness and to top it off my mood/outlook on life has tremendously been lifted! Mirena has already made such a difference and it has saved my sex life. I would recommend this to anyone who has had no success with the pill and needs a peace of mind type of birth control.
I had almost zero pain during insertion- I took 800 mg of Aleve before and felt minimal discomfort. I was worried reading all these reviews how bad it hurt but it seems it depends on each individual because it was not painful at all for me
Some background: I am 20 right now and got it when I was 18 or 17. I had no kids before (and after the placement). It was so I can have safe sex with my first boyfriend. Pros: Not needing to worry about taking a pill when I am busy with school and work. Safe sex I do not have 6 hours migraine (of wanting-to-remove-my-eye-with-a-spoon pain) anymore. It got rid of my cramps that were a 8/10 on the pain scale. No more 7 days of blood (now 1 day of spotting and 1 day of discharge) No more scary mood sweeps of crying over nothing to wanting to kill everyone. Cons: Never had a child so the placement hurt a lot (10/10 on the pain scale). It took about 3 months for the cramps and off and on spotting from the placement to go away. It is advise to check the strings are in place about once a month (after your "period") The short: I LOVE Mirena. When my 5 years are up, I will be getting it replaced. I do not advise getting this if you do not have cramps or a low tolerance to pain. If you have bad "b*tchy" cycle get this. It is a life saver.
I got my Mirena put in on Thursday (Sept. 15th). I wanted a birth control that would last a long time. I already take a lot of other medications (for allergies, acid reflux, and mental illness) so having one less pill to worry about sounded ideal. I also have heavy, but standard-length periods that I wanted to lessen. The insertion process is different for everybody. I'm 19 years old with no children, and I never want children. For me, it was incredibly painful and nothing like I ever felt before. I cried and yelled a lot, and it felt longer than it actually took. Thankfully my OBGYN was very gentle and patient with me, but she said I turned very pale. They gave me 3 ibuprofen and a cold drink of water afterwards, and let me lay down for a bit until I felt okay enough to get up and have my mother take me home. The rest of the day, I actually felt okay, which surprised me. That night, however, was awful. The ibuprofen wore off and I had very intense menstrual-like cramps in my lower back (like when I have a really bad period) and I didn't get any sleep because I was in pain. The following day, I felt okay again. Then that night my cramps flared up again, but not as badly as the firs
I'm 23 years old; I decided to share my experience for women like me who keep coming across all these bad reviews. I'm scheduled to get my mirena taken out next year in May. I've had it for almost 5 years. Prior to this birth control I was always irresponsible with the pills, I didn't like the shot either so this was the best option for me. I accidentally got pregnant & had an abortion then I got mirena. In the time I've had it I haven't had any issues. I barely ever have periods, no cramping, no pregnancy scares. I wouldn't however get it again because I am young and I want kids. But I would definitely recommend it for most people. My best friend has it too & same deal she loves it but we're just afraid of infertility rumors.
Please please listen to me if you plan to have children one day. Im 37 had two children by the time I was 21. I had one early term abortion and struggled internally with the decision. I saw the commercial that said take it out when you are ready to concieve. Ok perfect. Im in great shape and people mistake me for 7-10 years younger than i really am.Im a vegetarian also. And all my physicals at the doctors were perfect. Getting the Mirena put in was a nightmare. I should of stopped the doctor. It was sooooo painful, I started hyperventilating during the procedure. Worst than labor and deliver that I experienced when i had my second child who was 10lbs at birth! My man, who was 7 years younger complained about the wire/gimp string cutting him during intercourse. I decided to remove the mirena after 6 months and we were planning to have a baby. After the Mirena was removed the doctor told me to wait at least a month perferably 3 months before i get pregnant. Well we followed her instructions. That was back in 2009! Its now 2016 and I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO GET PREGNANT SINCE. The Mirena made me infertal. It damaged me internally. I saw a tv lawyer commercial and called to ta
I got the Mirena in 2008 after having my third child. I have had zero problems with it. After 5 years I had it removed to have it replaced. And again no problems. I sometimes get cramps about twice a year. I'm not hormonal and haven't had a period in 8+ years. This contraception has been wonderful for me.
I cannot speak for every woman or every experience, but I wanted to share my short story with the Mirena. I am 38 with no children. I've had 1 abortion 7 years ago. I had the Mirena inserted 2 weeks ago. I was diagnosed with uterine fibroids that caused my prolonged and heavy bleeding and my doctor recommended the Mirena to stop the symptoms I was having. He said this was the only hormonal option I had since I am a smoker. It was either the Mirena or a hysterectomy. So I followed his advice and tried the Mirena. fr the day I had it inserted, I experienced even heavier bleeding and the worst cramps of my life. I couldn't walk from my living room to my kitchen without having to stop and sit down. I felt very heavy in my abdomen and was bleeding through 5 - 6 pads a day. This morning, I woke up and almost fainted while getting out of bed. My fiancé immediately rushed me to the ER. My blood pressure was elevated at 156/92 (normal for me is 96/70). I could not walk into the ER from all the pain in my lower abdomen. The ER Doctor listened to what I have experienced and he called my GYN. They both agreed that a possibility is that one of the arms of the Mirena was situated on a fibroid in
I got mirena inserted in July of 2014 when I was 22. I have had nothing but success with it. I am a nurse and I work all kinds of shifts so I could never remember to take my birth control pills on time. I also tried Nuva ring which was not right for me. I do get my period monthly which is unfortunate but it is significantly lighter. I do get cramps and it lasts about 7 days normally but it is much more tolerable than before. I love mirena and when the time is up I plan on getting another one.
Let me just out right say, I am a man and I personally did not take this drug, but let me tell you my experience with it. First of all, my fiance and I have two kids. We decided we wanted to wait to have our third. She got the Mirena put in. Let me just tell you this is a very effective birth control. So effective that my finance barely ever wanted to actually have intercourse. Before the birth control she wanted it once a day sometimes more than once. More than I did let's just say that. After getting this put in she completely lost her desire for sex. We probably did one a week sometimes less. It became a problem. She had serious mood swings, she gained weight, and she overall lost her sexually energy and the mixture of all of these things put tension on our relationship. Eventually she decided it was time to remove it. She had it for about for 6 months to a year before she got it removed. About a week or so after getting it removed she started bleeding heavily. It only got worse. She ended up in the ER on two separate occasions. I mean she literally would fill up an overnight pad in 10 minutes. They gave her a prescription of pill form birth control which fina
I am 20 years old and a year ago one of my friends told me she inserted an IUD and no longer got her period. NO PERIOD?! Of course I wanted to try this birth control. I set up an appointment to get it inserted. Let me tell you, before getting this inserted I had little to no problems with acne. I would have one maybe two at a time so when my gynecologist asked if I was concerned with acne before getting it inserted, of course I said no. The inserting part was a little painful, and my awful cramps lasted on and off for a month. After that, I had no problem with the IUD. I had no bleeding, no cramps, and I didn't have to worry about taking pills daily. After 3 months of having the IUD, I began to get painful cystic acne. After that it got worse and worse, and soon my whole face was covered in deep red acne scars and cystic acne. I remember reading about ladies with similar experiences when I noticed the acne, but I ignored it and told myself that it would get better. It did not get better. I was so embarrassed of my face that I wouldn't even go to bed without makeup on if I was around anybody but my family. If I could put a picture on here to show before and after pictures to only le
I am sharing my experience in hopes it will help someone in my shoes as these other reviews helped me. I got the mirena inserted a year and a half ago. It was horribly painful but I managed. I bled for 6 months straight. I became so irritated but still stuck it out. One day it stopped and I never had a period (only rare spotting) ever again. After that I loved it. No pregnancy, no weight gain, pretty much no side effects. Then at about the one year mark everything started going down hill. I started getting cystic acne (that my gyno assured me wasn't due to the mirena) HORRIBLE breast pain and swelling. I mean I went up two cup sizes, and now slight weight gain. About 10lbs. Everything is pretty manageable except for this constant breast pain and swelling, it's unbearable. I can't even touch my boobs because they hurt so bad. My gyno does not believe these side effects have to do with the mirena but I am positive they are. I am making an appointment tomorrow to get it removed.
I just have to share my experience with the Mirena. I have scheduled to have the Mirena inserted for a month. I was taking birth control pills (Junel Fe 1/20) for a month and a half and experience mild symptoms like mood changes. I was afraid to go on birth control because of the symptoms and possible weight gain. But to my surprise, I have not seen any noticeable changes with my body, which is why I figured I may want to stick to the pills. I grew worried and ambivalent about the insertion after reading many negative reviews and experiences with the Mirena. The day of the insertion approached and I could either continue with the pills or switch to the IUD. I was so afraid to go forward with the procedure and the spotting but ultimately decided to through with it. The insertion was pretty intense and extremely uncomfortable, but to a degree tolerable. It was less than 5 minutes and I realized I survived. I experienced intense cramps and nausea for about 2 hours but then the symptoms subsided to a 4/10. I bled heavily for the first day and woke up the next morning to find myself energetic, spotless and cramp-less! I continue taking the pills for about 3 days to reduce spotting and i
I was 35 years old with kids. Had this device inserted and was very painful during the insertion. Came home and was in very bad pain and had to sit in a hot bath because of the sever cramping. Over the next few months, my hair got thin, and I completely lost my sex drive and became so depressed I had no desire to do anything anymore. After about five months I had it taken out and felt better immediately but my sex never came back. I feel like this device aged me and sex is no longer pleasureful at all. In fact I used to love sex so very much, and now I hate having sex because it doesn't feel good and can be painful at times. The worst thing about mirena for me was that I permanently lost my sex drive and can no longer derive pleasure from having sex.
I'd had horrendous periods since day 1 of ever having them. Excruciating pain, flooding through clothes, used to sleep with two tampons in and wearing a towel and on a bath towel and still bled through to the sheets. I'd tried medications but nothing really helped much. I heard about mirena and was keen to try it as getting so desperate and doctors just saying "well your periods have always been like that so live with it" I was 34 had no kids so had it inserted, yes it was painful but the bad pain was for like less than a second then I was fine. I went home and took some painkillers for mild cramps and watched Netflix on the sofa. Had a bit of spotting for the first couple of weeks and get a few spots about 4 times a year maybe? But omg this device is life changing. I am a functional human for the entire month rather than 3/4 of it. Thank you mirena. I'm 3 years on and would replace mine tomorrow without hesitation.
I had mirena iud put in February 2016, six weeks post parting.Yes it hurt but of course the pain went away. I have had a foul Oder sinceday 1, it decreased my milk supply, spotted everyday for 2 months. Stopped nursing since there was not a lot of milk. Then spotted every day except when it was time for my period it would be normal, constant cramping, low sex drive,headaches. I have had to wear a pad straight for 7 months now and am furious. I am defiantly getting this taken out.Not for me!
I've been on Mirena for a little over a year and would definitely recommend it. I'm 29, never have had children and wanted to use it since experiencing so many side effects from regular birth control. First off, the procedure to get it inserted HURTS I won't lie. But, for once in 5 years I think it was worth it. I bled on and off for the first 2 or 3 months which was annyoing and had to wear pantyliners all the time. Now, I rarely spot and never get my period. The only annoying side effect I have now is if I have sex, I usually bleed for a couple days after, which has been a major bummer. Other than that I never worry about it.
The Mirena was great... except when it came time for my monthly period. Now, when I say period I mean when I would have had one but shortly after getting the Mirena inserted I only had light spotting for the first couple of months. I had the Mirena inserted after I had an abortion. After about 6 months of having the Mirena, I began to have HORRIBLE cramping to the point where when I explained them to someone who has had children said that they sounded like the pain they felt with contractions. The cramps were so bad that I would have to take strong pain medications(prescribed by my doctor) just so I could go to sleep and not be in agonizing pain. I'm sharing my story because I was terrified that something was wrong, after reading all of the horror stories about Mirena you think the worst. After finally removing the Mirena it determined that there were no injuries or medical conditions caused by the Mirena. It just wasn't right for my body. I am now trying the Nuvaring as an alternative.
I had my first Mirena in 2005 at aged 38 following the birth of my third child, and as I am now post menopausal I had my third and final one removed last week. During that time I never had a break through bleed or any identifiable problems.
The mirena has been nothing but problems for me...I did not want to get the mirena in the first place but I had to do so to slow my bleeding after childbirth. I had the mirena inserted which was not a pleasant experience...not the worst but uncomfortable. I had only had the mirena in for four months. I waited put the 3 month trail period to see if the symptoms would get better. Having the mirena I had a little if weight gain..very tired all the time.. ovarian cysts...bleeding non stop...mood swings...muscle pain...back pain...swelking in my lower back and leg cramps. I had a tubal lugation done and at the same time had the mirena removed...I have had heavy bleeding and clots since doing so. I think there are alot of side effects the dr does not tell you. I can't say yet if I feel better as it has not yet been long enough since I had it removed. ..to make a long story short...I felt absolutely horrible while having the mirena...and it is NOT the God send birth control your dr will tell you it is...iam glad I have it out and am looking forward to feeling better
I went to my gynecologist early August, and mirena was the choice of my poison, rather than skyla. I have given one vaginal birth to a healthy baby, however I wish I would have chosen different. My doctor said it would stop my periods, wrong. I have bled, and cramped since the day I got this, worse than my usual periods. It's light bleeding but I was convinced to choose mirena because I've had a childbirth, and skyla was recommended to women who have no children or not given childbirth, simply because it lasts 5 years and releases more hormones and is a tad bigger in size. I do not like this. I go back at the end of the month and I hope to get something fixed. I would not recommend this
I got Mirena inserted in early July 2016. The insertion was very painful, and I had pretty bad cramps for the rest of the day. About a week after the insertion I started my period and continued to spot for about a month and a half. Through this month I was extremely moody. Easily irritated, cried at everything. It was pretty bad. But once the bleeding stopped, I could tell a difference in my mood. I guess it was the hormones balancing out. It sucked for me at first, and I considered getting it taken out, but I waited it out and now I love it!
I got Mirena six months ago (Feb 2016), and so far I'm loving it. I am 25 years old, never had kids. I use it as my primary form of birth control/hormone regulation (otherwise my periods are AWFUL). Here are some pros and cons as I've experienced it: Pros: -my period has completely stopped, no bloating, cramping, or spotting -my mood is more even-keeled than it was before birth control -I feel like my sex life is a little more spontaneous, and my sex drive has returned (I used to be on Ortho Evra, the patch, which completely killed my libido) -no noticeable weight gain, or at least none that can't be attributed to drinking too much beer -no skin problems Cons: -insertion is pretty painful. I'd say an 8/10 on the pain scale. I took 4 ibuprofen beforehand, and as soon as the procedure was over (less than 2 minutes), the pain receded to completely manageable levels--4/10 or so. -I had consistent, moderate to severe cramping for about two weeks after the procedure, but was able to return to work the next day. I have only had the occasional, isolated cramp since. -I still have pretty intense cravings, usually around the time of month when I would have gotten my period.
I got the mirena inserted 02-27-15 after I had my third child c-section since the doctor refused to tie my tubes even though the chances of becoming pregnant to soon can cause serious damage for the first 6 months I bleed everyday day after that my cycle went from 5 days to 12 I suffered major hair loss,acne mood swing low sex drive vomiting nausea heavy bleeding every month bad stomach pains and constantly getting infections so I went to get in removed first try Doctor couldn't get it out couldn't find the strings so I than bleed from August 1 till the 18 finally on the 22 I was able to get in out it hurted a lot and still bleeding but my body feels 1,000 times better
So I read all the horror stories and was mentally prepping for Hell. I had been on Depo Provera for 1.5 years with nonstop bleeding, weight gain, moodiness, and any other hormonal side effect you can think of and was ready to try something new. I am a baby when it comes to pain, so I was REALLY dreading the insertion process. I won't lie, insertion was not fun, although I know my nerves made it worse than it actually was. Thankfully, it took less than 5 minutes. Right after, I felt dizzy and was in pain and lied down for 15 minutes before leaving. Full disclosure, I was in very bad pain for the next two hours to the point where I was ready to reach in and pull it out myself. I researched others' experiences and they said they had the pain for weeks. To my pleasant surprise, after going to the bathroom, calming down, and eating something, my pain went from a 10 to a 5 (tolerable) after 2 hours of insertion. By the end of the first night, I was okay (3 on the pain scale). The next morning, I was SHOCKED to find I had no pain and maybe the amount of discomfort of being a little gassy. I was even able to go to a concert that day and work the following day. ALSO, on the Depo
I got the mirena 10 months ago. I've had none stop bleeding and spotting. I never had acne before and from the week I had it put it in, it's been none stop acne. I have very low sex drive now and feel emotionally low.
I had Mirena inserted on 8/3/2016 on the 5th day after the start of my period(I was already done bleeding). I am 21 years old, have never had children or been pregnant. The insertion was definitely uncomfortable I must say. I had never had a Pap smear or anything up until this point so this was a whole new experience for me! I was not given anything to dilate my cervix(as it is already partially dilated during your period). Your HCP will put a skinny ruler in first to measure your uterus. It is like a quick stab in your uterus and then it is over. Then she does it one more time to insert the Mirena-same exact pain. I bled the first day some and cramped just like bad period cramps. After that I have had no bleeding and have only had slight period cramps. I would wait a week or so to have sex to let your body adjust to it, but it is not problem after that! So far I love it and I have not been nearly as hormonal and grouchy as I was on birth control. I have tried several different types as I have very heavy periods that usually last 7 full days where I would soak a super plus tampon within an hour. Birth control pills at the strongest level of hormones did make my period lighter but I
Please do not get this I've had the most horrible time with this inside of me... Terrible...I've been so tired no energy blood and cramps have been non-stop since I've had it inserted tonight was the last straw with extreme dizziness,nausea,diarrhea,fatigue.i took mine out n I feel so much better now thank God ladies please don't get this form of birth control
I am 22 years old with no children. I had my first mirena inserted a week ago. This is also my first time using birth control so this is a brand new experience for me. My doctor was very honest with me that the insertion may be more painful for me than for women who have had children, and the insertion may not work the first time without using a drug to dilate my cervix. However, mirena was still the best option for me, so I decided I could handle going through the discomfort. I suffer from very intense period cramps monthly so I figured I could manage it. I took ibuprofen before to prepare. The insertion went very well for me, it felt like a very intense and concentrated period cramp while my doctor was dilating my cervix. It wasn't fun, but also not the worst pain ever. When my doctor was able to get me dilated enough to try inserting the device I didn't really feel it at all. My cramps were still there from dilating but weren't very intense anymore, but I didn't feel the device being placed like I guess I thought that I would have. Overall it took about 10 minutes. My hands got a little sweaty during the procedure, but I think I was just really nervous because it was a pretty in
I wanted to share by extremely positive experience with Mirena after reading negative reviews before having it placed which made we super nervous. I waited five months since placement to offer as much insight as I possibly could. The short of it is that the Mirena IUD has been the best decision I have ever made. Placement was just mildly uncomfortable; just a slight cramp. It went away after a couple hours. I was told to wait a week before it would be completely effective. After which my boyfriend and I tried it out and it continues to work like a charm. He finishes and everything and I've had no pregnancy scares at all. We are both super glad to have done away with condoms! As for periods. they still came the first couple months, but ever since then I have had little to no bleeding and it makes me giddy. I wonder why not every woman has Mirena if it means not having to deal with blood gushing out of you five days a month. Now I know what a guy feels like! It is truly spectacular. I can swim whenever I want, wear nice underwear all the time, and not have to dread my period. I have had no negative side effects at all. That is my experience with Mirena. And since I don't want kids I
Im on my second mirena. Two very different insertion experiences. My first mirena i had inserted in 2009 at my 6 week postpartum checkup. A quick cramp and it was all over. I blead for 3 months, then never had a period again while I had mirena. I had it removed after 2.5 years because I was never able to feel the strings and that made me extremely nervous especially with all the mirena lawsuit comercials on tv at the time. I switched back to the the pill, which made me very nauseous all the time. I then had the nexplanon for 2.5 years. It was good, no periods, but killed my sex drive completely.not good for a newly married woman. I wish Id never had my mirena out. On august 1st I had my second mirena inserted. This insertian was, I wont lie, very painful. I rested on the couch for the rest of the day, then continued to have dull pain in my left side for about two weeks. After the initial two weeks, I have zero pain, no period yet. I tried to feel the strings multiple times, but cant. Everyones body is diffrent and I am just unable to check myself. Got a bit worried about this and went back to the doctor for a recheck. Everything is in place and doing fine. Husband cant feel the str
I've had Meraina for 2 years and the overall experience is very positive. I've had three children so the insertion part was a snap. I've had a few side effects: some hair loss (it's come back) and somewhat reduced sex drive. It stopped my horrible periods altogether and stopped debilitating migraines almost entirely. The few side effects are worth the benefits in my case. I recommend it!
Okay, so Yesterday, August 16th I went in to have my Mirena put in. I chose to do the IUD because it lasts for 5 years, I didn't have to take a pill everyday and it seemed like the way to go. I was already nervous going into it because I've never had children before. Whenever I got there my OBGYN asked if I was sure and I said yes. I took a pain pill and muscle relaxer before the procedure and keep in mind I have a very high pain tolerance. She inserted the speculum and then measured my uterus. At that point I was in excruciating pain. I couldn't take it anymore and I made her quit. I was in tears. This was the worst pain I have ever felt. People are all different so what's hurts me may not hurt someone else. I ended up going with the Nuva ring to see how that works for me. The pain of insertion wasn't worth it to me.
I got the Mirena put on the 27th of July the pain that I had having it inserted should have been my first sign. I could barely drive home. When I finally got home I layed in the bed all day and cried I wanted to call my dr and say I'm coming back to have you to remove it asap. I finally got a little relief around 4pm no discharge or anything. I was unable to sleep on my sides or my back . I went back to the dr the next week because I was in so much pain and unable to get uncomfortable. I go back and find out I have a cyst on my ovary and a slight infection all from this Mirena. Something that is suppose to help me is hurting me. My doctor reassured me that it was going to get better. I go home and the falling week no signs of relief I am popping 800 mg ibropheun, 500 mg naproxen, 250 mg ponstel rotating these pain meds trying to find relief nothing works. My heating pad has become my better half I have it with me at work and at home. I am constantly having sharp pains shooting in my vagina, backaches, pressure in abdomen I am still unable to sleep on my back and sides. I can't get comfortable. All I do is go to work and go home to lay down. I have lunch at my desk because I can't b
I had this installed over 10 months now,thought my period would atleast be 3 days as I was told.before the installation,I had a regular 5days period light to heavy.now it's 10 days heavy and smelly.I realize that like particles of whatever on my pantie liner every after seeing my period.I have head aches from time to time.stomach aches also.sometimes I wonder if this thing is going to be the death of me.I don't trust it inside me.I'm planning on getting this removed next week.
Was on Yaz for PMDD. Then Dr. Suggested Mirena because of ease of use. After 3.5 yrs PMS symptoms started creeping up on me. Mood swings, fatigue, acne ect. Finally asked for it to be removed. First attempt they couldnt get it out. Had an ultrasound and it was embedded on my right side. After a second attempt Dr. was able to remove it. Had a good run for 3.5 yrs with Mirena. Now going to stick to Yaz. No more IUDs.
Worst contraption ever! I was pushed into this for control of heavy, painful and frequent cycles (twice a month) and I must say this treatment had many more negative impacts than benefits. For one, the strings stabbed my partner during intamacy and resulted in thrush for him, it also caused unpleasant odour for me and so my relationship ended. I had it removed and noticed a severe lower back pain that I had for weeks instantly disappeared. A week later, no more migraines, no more insomnia, no more aggression, hair no longer like straw and now not falling out, not needing to constantly pee, sinus infection now disappearing, losing the tyre i gained around my stomach.... and so many more instant recoveries that plagued me with this thing. Don't believe your Dr when they say it's all on your head, I researched after I had mine removed and saw so Manu women with the same or worse negative affects. Do not be fooled by promises that side affects are minimal, they are not and this iud is being pushed hard because there is money to be made and that is more important to this company and its pushers than your health. Do your research ladies!
Age 22. 5'4" and 125lbs. I love my Mirena! Insertion hurt like crazy but only lasted 5 minutes. 1st month was crampy and I spotted the entire 2nd month. The 3rd month is when everything was regulated. After 3 months of having my Mirena, I can say I 100% love having my Mirena in. Do not be discouraged by the negative comments. Everyone has a different experience. I have had no hair loss. No weight gain. I lost about 20+ lbs (I was about 150lbs when I started) but I contribute that to diet and exercise.
I had a horrible experience with Mirena. The side effects were numerous and daunting - anxiety - mood swings - weight gain - MAJOR HAIR LOSS! - migraines - blurred vision - numbness in toes - double vision - and more! I had to demand that it be removed - they kept telling me to wait and keep it in for 3 months and things would improve. If I had waited for 3 months I would have been fat , bald, and alone! This drug does not work the same for everyone. I suggest going into it thinking that you can get almost every side effect because that is what happened to me! This should not be on the market.
I had the birth control IUD mirena placed just after my six month check up after having my baby! No problem having it inserted but I do NOT recommend this to any breastfeeding mother! (Yes, every body and hormones are different for everyone) however, this almost completely dried up my milk not even a month into having it inserted! Thankfully I realized it in time and had it removed immediately and was able to get my milk supply back! Anyone who breastfeeds knows how hard it is in the first six weeks so I didn't want to give up what I worked so hard to get! Also, I felt it made me very moody and irritable all the time! Having it taken out was an extremely quick process and I never felt a thing! Always trust what your body is telling you!
I'm not going to sugarcoat it. Insertion is VERY painful if you've never been pregnant before. Very intense cramping/pinching in the uterus/cervix area, plus I experienced about 20-30 minutes of nausea and dizziness. The nurse said I turned as white as the sheets and I had to lay down until I stopped cold sweating and could stand without fainting. However, not everyone experiences that much pain (only about half of the people I talked to). About a half hour later I was able to leave and drive myself home and then back to work a few hours later. For the week or so following I took 3-4 Ibuprofen every 8 hours, otherwise I would have pretty painful cramping but again not everyone has these problems. I did have some spotting for the first month but that's normal. I've been on it for about 6 months and so far it has been so worth the pain of insertion. I have no side effects to report other than having a longer than normal (but very light) period for the first two cycles. Now I still have a period but it's generally only 4-5 days of very light bleeding (not even worth using a tampon). I switched to Mirena because of mood swings and depression I was experiencing with other birth controls
Age 26. Well, after extensive online research pros con pros con.. I had there Mirena put in 4 weeks after the birth of my son. It was a small pinch compared to labor. In the 2 years I had it in had light spotting every few months and never had a period. I don't believe I had anyou crazy weight mood swings. But I did notice my appetite increased. But I'm active and work full time on my feet. In the 2 years I put on 10 pounds. After having the MIrena removed I lost theverything weight In 2 months. But it did its job, zero pregnancies and no "I'm late, freak outs" I would continue using it, if I had too.
I stalled on switching to an IUD for several years because the few friends I knew that had one all had very painful experiences with it. Finally after my hormones pulled a 180 on the pill I'd been taking for years, I decided it was time to make the switch. After consultation with my doctor I decided that the Mirena IUD was the option I wanted to go with. Insertion for me was easy and almost completely painless. I am 27 years old, no children. I had it inserted the week after my period (5th day of period is the recommendation but I didn't want to wait). I took 800 mg of ibuprofen before the appointment. Like I said, the procedure was relatively painless. I had a bit of cramping while my cervix was held in position, but once Mirena was placed and everything removed, it stopped immediately. I went home and honestly had about 10 minutes of light cramping then all was good. I was expecting it to hurt a lot more. I have to mention the I have a higher pain tolerance than most people, which may have helped me during the insertion. I did have some light spotting that stopped 4 days later. It's been two weeks now and I have had no issues. My hormones are back to normal, thank goodness!
Would not and will not recommend this to anyone!
I had Mirena put in about 3 months ago, for me the insertion was terrible, but the side effects of that (severe cramping) had subsided in a few hours. This is definitely a simple solution it's good for 3 years. When I got my first period it lasted about two weeks, but after that it lessened and didn't last as long. I do get cramping but it's tolerable.
I have had the Mirena IUD inserted for 4.5 years (first try). There was some quite painful but tollerable cramping for the first about 24 hours and lessened over the following few days. For the first year I experienced the odd bout of cramping and periods lessened and eventually stopped altogether. From the 3rd year onwards I have gained a little weight but I dont know if that is the Mirena causing it. Also the odd, small, acne breakout, also not sure if that is the Mirena. Considering the benefits of worry free interrelations with my partner, not needing to keep track of the pill and not having to deal with pesky monthly cycles (didn't hinder ovulation) I feel the Mirena is a great option and has been fantastic for me. As mentioned, there is a bit of pain and uncomfortableness but not untollerable. Heat pack and regular stretching!
I had Mirena inserted 3 months ago. The insertion was painful for me. I am 31 years old, no children, I had taken 800 mg of Ibuprofen pre-insertion. At the time I told my husband I would never go through that pain again, but looking back, it was 3 short painful minutes, I would probably do it again. I had pain (cramping) and spotting for the first 2 days, continued light spotting for 2 weeks. I did experience 3 days of pretty severe headaches in the first week, but no further headaches. I had weird twinges, small cramps more initially, very seldom now. I had 1 light period, and 1 episode that I would call spotting, it wasn't enough to count as a period. I was very worried about weight gain with Mirena. I had been consistently losing weight for 10 weeks prior to insertion. I do think the first 3 weeks I plateaued in my weight loss, but I had experienced a quick 4-5 # drop the week of insertion. It has now been 12 weeks since Mirena and I have lost 12 pounds with healthy diet and exercise. I wouldn't say I love Mirena but that's probably mostly because I am terrified of all the negative reviews I've read. It really is doing the trick for my husband and myself right now.
I had the mirena inserted for about 2 months before I really started to notice the horror. I would not recommend this birth control for anyone! After a couple months I had started to get HORRIBLE cramping, especially in my ovaries, it would feel like every time I moved or stretched my stumach out any way that my insides were ripping apart. I then went to the doctor to make sure it wasn't something else causing the pain so I had an ultrasound. I figured out that not only was it causing horrible pain by catching, it had also caused a few small cysts to form on my uterus, which are terribly painful! I went and got that thing taken out right after that. It's been about 5 years since I've had it out. Save yourself the trouble and pain and find a different option!
Painful to have put in and had lots of back pain and headaches after getting it then I began getting puffy and gaining weight. I had it taken out after 4 months and am now cramping and bleeding a lot and am exhausted.
Cramps have been unmanageable and don't go away even with painkillers
Hi , I have Mirena for 4 months , I was using depo shot for almost 2 yeras , was killing me . Is anobody gain weight with mirena o bloating ?
I just had mirena inserted about 3 hours ago. I took the dilation meds my doctor prescribed me. I am 23 and have never had children so I also scheduled it for when I was on my period so it would be less painful. Also my doctor recommended an ultrasound insertion to be safe. It really wasn't as bad as I thought! Unfortunately my cervix is so small that we had to go through 2 of them before it actually stayed. So basically I had it inserted 3x. That's sucked but not much to be done there. I drove home no problem (35min drive) and am now experiencing a little pain but nothing horrible. Will check back when I hit my 6months.
I am 18 years old, and I have had my Mirena in for 8 months. Insertion was quite painful for me, but it was a quick 3 minutes and I haven't had ANY pain since. I got one period about 2 weeks after insertion that lasted about 10 days, and haven't had one since. I am a very active person, therefore the Mirena has been an amazing thing for me. Planning to keep it in for the full 5 years and then getting another one when I'm done having kids. It has made my life so much easier and carefree when it comes to birth control and periods.
SO, I feel like one good thing to point out for online reviews: you're going to hear more bad than good. With that being said, I've had Mirena for a week and have been spotting a little bit, but not even enough to wear a tampon. The procedure wasn't too bad but I've also had two kids which helps. It was pretty much like a PAPsmear though. I had a little cramping for the rest of the day, but other than that I love it so far. Hopefully my bleeding stays to a minimum and goes away soon, but even if it doesn't, it's a good feeling to know I more than likely won't get pregnant. Strongly recommend for anyone who doesn't remember to take pills like me!
ive had my Mirena for about 7 months I'm 20 years old and I love it. No problems !
I got the Mirena well over two years ago after I had my first boy. The process was just as expected. It was fast and when inserted it was a bit painful but nothing to be worried about. There was bleeding after wards for a week or two but once my body got adjusted to it, it was like nothing happened. Now I feel like if there's nothing there. I don't get my period nomore which is like heaven. Prior to getting the iud I tried the pills but I would constantly find myself forgetting to take them. That's when I decided to switch. I would totally recommend this and I plan on continuing to use this birth control method.
Pre- Morena, I started my period at 11 and always had heavy crampy periods lasting 7 days avg. I am highly fertile and have 6 children plus was a traditional surrogate and got pregnant on the first insemination(rare) I tried birth control pills and natural family planning prior to mirena. On the pills, I gained 20+ lbs per year and lost all libido, had irritability issues and hypothyroid symptoms ever since. The natural family planning method worked perfectly with my first husband but not at all with my second husband. Babies 5&6 are less than a year apart. After insertion of mirena, I bled heavily for 3 of every 4 weeks for 5 months. I did not try sex for that entire time. Losing weight has been slow, but I have not gained weight. My libido is less than unmedicated, but much better than the pill. I have experienced pain during sex, and my husband can sometimes feel the strings irritating his activity. I get random cramps and uterine pain, but no infection so far. I had it inserted in September 2015. Last month my period was heavy and lasted 2 weeks, this month it was normal and lasted 7 days. I have been on the edge of deciding to remove it all this time, but cant have another b
I got the Merina inserted for Heath issues as I have heavy clot ( bleeding ) I had the Merina inserted under sedation for $490 and on the 24 the day it dislodged ( I did not have months prior and post insert ).i called the clinic and told them that it dislodged and that I was feeling unwell with a fever,nausea and cramping they told me that they needed to see me within 24 to 48hrs but the were booked out and advised me to see my GP for antibiotics and painkiller while waiting to see them .6 days after the dislodged the saw me,gave me an ultrasound and said 'sorry this as happen ,and couldn't understand why it has'. I asked them if they can do another one and was told yes but I'll have to pay $490. I said that it was no fault of mine and that they need to do it for free or under Medicare . Heartlessly they showed me my signature that I had signed the disclaimer that this can happen and that they won't replace it free of charge or under Medicare . No compassion, very cold when presenting me with the documents that I signed. I was so upset and devastated that I burst out crying and left the clinic cos I can't afford to pay for another one . Never again will I deal with them .
I just got mirena yesterday. Im only rating based on insertion and afterwards. It sucked. I screamed but it was over in 2 minutes. Ive had terrible cramping since i got it but was assured it was normal since i havent had a baby yet. Not really bad cranps now, just uncomfortable. Nothing a heating pad and ibuprofen cant handle. Ill update it once the 3 months have passed. But cramping is terrible
Great Birth Control
After reading so many Mirena experiences online my experience is worth sharing. Two weeks ago I had my second Mirena removed. There weren't any complications but it was well beyond the five year mark. Removing it, I knew would be painful. I was prepped for the pain because it was the second one. Well, the pain wasn't nearly as bad. My new doctor thought I should wait until I had a cycle to insert another. In spite of telling him no birth control pills for me he prescribed progesterone. Three days after the removal I took it for five days. My life, as I knew it tanked. The lower back pain, night sweats & cramps were nothing compared to feeling mad, tired, starving, depressed & bloated. After a few phone calls and and a miserable two weeks, I am elated to have my friend again. The insertion was so painful, no words for it. Just agony! It's short lived but it hurts, hurts bad. The crummy feelings of being a hormonal train wreck are gone. I love Mirena. Love not having PMS or feeling pregnant. Love being in control of me. Love no bloating or cycles. Sure there is some cramping and spotting. Big woo, this is a piece of cake compared to not having it. As I told my doctor, unles
I wanted to share my honest opinion about the Mirena because there are so many misconceptions about this birth control. I normally don't write reviews, but I would have read something that would have helped me make a choice on birth control. I had read so many mixed reviews about this birth control that I didn't know if I was making the right choice. First of all my health care provider told me the pros and cons about the Mirena. She did tell me there may or may not be some bleeding after the insertion and that I may experience some cramping afterwards for a few days. That is something to expect, it's going to your uterus so of course you are going to experience some cramping. Second of all my insertion was easy and not painful at all. Now, I am not saying you don't feel anything. You feel when they insert the Mirena, but it is not painful at all. With that said, everyone is different and it all depends on who does the insertion and how they do it. My health care provider did an excellent job. I had read that most people were in pain for a whole year that they couldn't even have sex or that they experienced heavy bleeding. My care provider advised me that if I experienced any of t
I always had bad cramps as a little girl. I got my period at age 9. Everyday i would pass out during my first day of period until the last day which would last 9-12 days very heavy as well. I had a baby vaginally and ever since my period only hurts before i start which are bad cramps but not dueing my period. Today i went to get the mirena. I was so scared. Even if i had a baby down there with no epidural, let me tell you it was super fast no more than 5 minutes did she last inserting it and the cramps do hurt but nothing as painful as giving birth or heavy period cramps. The cramps last 3-4 seconds and twice only. Im glad i'm good with pain since i get bad pain dueing my pain that has made me tolerate anything good. I just got it about 5 minutes ago so we'll see how the side affects are.
If I were to say it was wretched that would be an understatement. I am taking it for birth control only and have experienced so many side effects I want scream. Before this ridiculous device I was pleasant, my periods were regular and manageable. Since this device was inserted, quite painfully I might add, I have experienced a barrage symptoms including: dizziness, weight gain, frequent nausea, random and almost constant bleeding, diminished libido to the point of none existent, and finally crazy mood swings. I would rather have a baby a million times over than be the wretched shrew this device has turned me into. I have two children and more often than not I'm irritable, mind I was happy and pleasant before, my kids don't deserve this. Take my advice if you're just getting it for birth control do yourself a favor and just don't. Find something else. I hate, hate, hate this device, removal eminent. I am not sure how the inventor sleeps at night.
I have had Mirena for about 5 months now. The insertion was almost painless. The first 3 months I would experience occassional cramping from light to severe. It was nothing I couldn't handle. I like it better than the pill and Nuvaring. The only thing I don't like and I've read others reviews is the odor. My lady bits has a stronger odor. After a year, I may switch to the copper IUD. It is effective as a birth control. Other than those side effects, I recommend giving it a try. And when you do, give your body some time to adjust.
I got it placed a month ago and had very little cramping overall a great expirience.
I am rating purely on the insertion, I just had it inserted today, and I was very nervous because of all of the awful reviews, so I wanted to make sure that I share my experience. I have always had very painful menstrual cramps, before the pill I would stay home from school curled in fetal position 2 days every month, on the pill I could still go to school/work, but would periodically double over in pain. During the insertion if my Mirena, I felt moderate uterine cramping, but with my history of very painful cramps, it wasn't that big of a deal. When I expressed my nervousness to my Nurse/Midwife who inserted mine about my anxiety, she reassured me that moderate cramping is normal, but this extreme pain that the reviews speak of, would be a result of improper placement/technique. Today, for once in my life, I was thankful for my painful menstrual cramps.
I had the Mirena and thought it was great! The Mirena served its purpose as far as birth control. I had no period life was great. Then I had f2fthe Mirena removed and not even a year later I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism. I have never had thyroid issues my whole life. I swear I think the Mirena was and is linked to my thyroid condition although there has not been any studies to prove that the two are connected. I hope they test it and I guarantee it will be linked
I loved everthing about the Mirena until it was removed. I didn't experience and discomfort with the insertion or removal. I loved not having a period for 5 years and I didn't have any weight changes. Shortly after removal I felt exhausted to the bone for about 3 months and extremely irritable at times. I've always been high energy and we'll tempered. I Google and found others called it the "mirena crash" so I assumed my body was adjusting to the change and that I had to get accustomed to having hormonal changes/periods. However, 7 months later at an annual check-up I was diagnosed with hypothyroid. There isn't any supporting evidence that the Mirena is linked to thyroid issues at this point but looking through Mirena blogs it seems to be quite common. The shift in my energy level was drastic and about 2 weeks post removal, I'm not one to believe in coincidence. I'd recommend doing your own research prior to insertion.
Horrible horrible horrible !!!! had it taken out at my 6 week check up couldn't stand it anymore very painful to have inserted I was light headed after and had very bad cramping which was random after about a week that was so bad I had to get a prescription for the pain and the bleeding never stopped !!!maybe 3 days out of 6 weeks I didn't have any bleeding that prolonged bleeding caused me to have two bacterial infections and my mood was all over the place my whole experience was horrible also I'm 24 with no kids and I'm glad to say I'm back on the pill and feeling normal again my body has adjusted and my periods are now normal after a week the only thing I will say is I didn't get pregnant while on the mirena so I guess it served its overall purpose the side effects just aren't worth it I didn't experience any weight gain or hair loss in during my use
I have been on Mirena for 6 years now and my second Mirena. At first I thought it was great periods stopped and didn't have to worry about birth control it did its job very well, in saying that since I have been on Mirena I have had horrible side effects... I have gained weight and can not lose it, the cravings for food I have is like nothing I have ever experience in my life. I'm hungry all of the time, I have sever pain in my lower abdomin, having sex with my husband is very painful , I am spotting blood everyday for 5 years, my hair is falling out severely. I am very depressed and highly emotional all off the time.i can't sleep. And half the time I do not want to do anything or go anywhere, my self confidence is at an all time low I do not like looking in the mirror and I have never felt this way in my life. I have been to every doctor there is and have had every test they could give me with every test I get there is nothing wrong. So I looke back in my journals to see when all of this started and low and behold...... Everything started when I had my IUD put in, so I researched my symptoms and Mirena and now I have my answers it is from Mirena. After discovering this I went back
I had the Marina fitted 20 months ago and the procedure was extremely painful to the point where i nearly broke the nurses hand! It settled after a week and i had no problems for the first 3 months. Now my periods are very light but completely random, I am a hormonal mess - the littlest things irritate me, and I've gained 16lb which I can not lose despite trying my absolute hardest. I've read a lot of forums where women have already been over weight before having it fitted then gained more weight but i was well within my BMI and after gaining 16lb I'm still not out of my BMI, I excercise, ride my horse 4 times a week and eat good but still can not lose one pound if anything they are still creeping on! I'm seeing my doctor today to get the thing removed!
I am 25, soon to be 26, with no children. I received the Mirena IUD a little over a year ago as an alternative birth control measure. At the time an IUD was my only option for birth control because oral contraceptives interfered with the medication I was on. It has been 7 months since I stopped taking my medication and the effects of the Mirena have not gone away. Though I completely stopped having periods two months ago (I am not pregnant, but it did scare the crap out of me), I still experience severe uterine and abdominal cramps. My cramps are so painful it feels like I'm going into labor. Sex is also extremely painful, it feels like the IUD is literally grounding my cervix and uterus into pulp. I have gone to my OBGYN several times and she says this is normal, that the pain should stop after one year. The pain hasn't stopped and my relationship with my husband is suffering because I don't want to be romantic anymore; it just hurts too much. I have an appointment to get the IUD removed next week and I am so incredibly relieved!
I have one daughter and had mirena inserted at my 6 week pp checkup. I absolutely love it! Have had it for 4 years now and will be replacing with another one in a year. Everyone wants to tell you horror stories but thats VERY rare!
I has the mirena put in about 3 1/2 years ago. Never had any issues with it. Still had my period every month but that wasnt a big deal for me. Well 3 1/2 years later i ma sitting here almost 7 weeks pregnant. I did lose alot a weight but never did i think that the device woukd fail me although it was in place. I guess nothing is safe
I have had the mirena in for about 2 months now after giving birth to my son. I have no side effects except for spotting which the doctor told me would occur. Getting the IUD inserted is VERY VERY uncomfortable and I do not say that lightly. But it does not feel like giving birth or anywhere close to it. Lol. I was able to get up and drive myself home after and didn't have any cramping or anything. So far the IUD has treated me well. I will review it again here in about sixth months if there are any changes.
Mirena is a such a harmful. I had an ectopic pragnancy because of mirena and I lost my right tube.WOULD NOT RECOMMEND.
An hour after having the Mirena IUD inserted I had extreme right hip pain that went down into my right thigh. After taking several Advil with no relief I went to my clinic's walk-in where they examined me and sent me to the ER. I had an ultrasound and pelvic exam, which showed nothing that could create the pain. The IUD was in the proper place so I suffered for several more days with the pain coming and going. Yesterday, I had a severe episode of pain at work and spent 24hrs in pain. Nothing worked to relieve it. So I made an appointment with my family doctor to have it removed. Before removal they Rama urine test and found white blood cells which created concern. My doctor removed the IUD and had instant hip pain relief.but still had some discomfort. I went back to the ER and had a CT scan, blood taken and another urine sample. Nothing was found as a source of the problem and the doctors determined that since nothing else was found that the IUD was the source of the problem. I've had it out for 6hrs now and I feel great. All of the pain is gone and I'm not bleeding anymore. I only had the IUD in for 5 days and it was the worst experience I could have had with it.
This birth control was an awful decision. I am 25, no kids, very healthy, and very active. I have been on multiple birth controls since high school, and was not able to find one that really worked for me. I have taken 2 different kinds of pills, the shot, and lastly the Mirena. Each one had different effects on me, but NOTHING like the Mirena. I had to Mirena IUD for 10 months and recently got it removed (THANK GOD). I had horrible side effects and have been started experiencing them about 6 months ago, and let me tell you it was AWFUL. I felt like I was insane, no joke, my emotions were all over the place, I had horrible cramps, and random abdominal pain quite often, periods never stopped and always random. I experienced horrible thoughts about myself, would get irritated with the littlest things that were not a big deal, AWFUL anxiety (which I never had prior to mirena), it felt like someone was stomping on my chest and i could not breathe- also I would constantly worry about things and could not get my mind to slow down. I was tired ALL the time or could not sleep-it was one of two extremes, I slowly became less interested in things I love to do- didn't want to be around people,
I got the Mirena put in a few days ago. I am 21 and have had no children. Getting the mirena put in was uncomfortable, but not at all painful. Very mild cramping but easily remedied with ibuprofen.
I have seen a lot of people complain about the Mirena. I would just like to say that I gave birth in 2010, and when I was able to get birth control after my 6 weeks, I chose Implanon, which was horrible. I had that removed and got Mirena. Since then I haven't had any problems, light or no preiods, and I am on year 5, about to have my current one taken out, and another put back in!! I love the Mirena!!
I just had Mirena inserted yesterday and I am 21 years old and have never been pregnant. I wish I would have known about the different types of pain control I could have had before hand because for me it hurt like hell. It felt like how I would imagine giving birth would feel, but it only lasted up to 1 minute which now makes me never want to give birth.. But besides the pain of the insertion and having to have someone come pick me up afterwords because I felt like I was going to pass out, heavy cramps lasted for the rest of the night even with medication. Today I feel much better with only a tiny bit of spotting and will update my post in a few weeks after my checkup! Tips for women who have never given birth: ask about an anesthetic, have someone drive you there and home, and be prepared to relax for the rest of the night.
I actually got the Mirena because my doctor said it would help with heavy bleeding. It really hurt getting inserted but it only lasted a few seconds. Two weeks in I started having leg pain and put me in a dabilated state. I am not one to cry and scream easily. Went to the doctor she said it was perfect. Next day severe pain threw me to the ground went to set on toilet felt a urge to push severe pain sweats and everything and it came out with a huge clot I mean huge. I seen a wire and some plastic in the clot. Most pain I have ever been through and I have been through a lot!!!
I had my mirena inserted about 11 months ago due to having polycystic ovarian syndrome. My gynocologist thought it would be a good way to regulate my periods or possibly stop them altogether. So, of course, (after dealing with HORRIBLE periods almost every two weeks and having two cysts rupture) I agreed. To begin, having it placed was one of the most painful things I have ever experienced in my life. I cramped immediately and about the second or third day I was at work and begin having what felt like contractions. After 9 hours at work in excruciating pain, as I work third shift, the doctor's office finally opened. I called and they basically told me that I wasn't in the kind of pain I said I was. After reading online about others' experiences I found that a lot of woman were having the same reaction. They told me to keep it in a little longer just to see if things got better. So I did. After about 5 months I was determined to have it taken out but they continued to tell me to wait until at least 6 months. It was hell. My periods lasted longer than ever, my back felt like it was breaking in half, and the cramps would go all the way down my legs and into my feet. Well when I finall
This was a bad decision as far as I am concerned. I had the Mirena removed approx. 6 months ago due to experiencing the most awful side effects. Whilst I felt better having it taken out, I am still not back to 'normal'. It really messed up my entire system and left me an emotional wreck for a time - that part is better now but others are not. I still have abdominalpain and periods are not yet back to normal. My iroun/ferritin levels are still on the low side due to the amount of blood I lost during Mirena and after removal. Do your research before considering the Mirena, it can work well for some women but not for all. Still feeling pretty traumatised with the whole process. Would NOT recommend.
I had a pelvic Abcess from my IUD I almost died I was in the hospital for 2 weeks with a catheter in my gut draining the infection ! It was extremely painful . My IUD got imbedded in my uterus and had surgery to remove it
Best birth control ever.I don't have to worry about taking a pill anymore..very effective..no side effects..have had it for over 2 years now and am extremely satisfied with it..I have recommended it to a lot of people
Loving Mirena! 1 week post insertion (on day 5/7 of my period). My spotting has stopped. I am praying that this continues. Still very early but so far so good. Insertion was a little more uncomfortable that a Pap smear. I had it placed for painful periods (adenomyosis), clots and heavy bleeding. Well we will see! Good luck to everyone! It is definitely worth a try. For me,I figured that it couldn't be any worst than what I was experiencing the week before and during my period. I committed to giving it a 6 month try. Hang in there.
I just removed my Mirena myself two days ago. I had it for 11 months and it hurt more than it helped. I got it because my periods started to get worse, lasting 9 days and the awful affects my periods had on me. After 11 months I still was not able to feel comfortable with the Mirena. I felt bloated more often than not. I would still feel a piercing sharp pain in my uterus, and I was constantly shedding uterine tissue. It's disgusting. Also, I've gained about 40lbs. Within two weeks of having the Mirena inserted, I noticed a difference in my digestion. I suffer from IBS, but not the type where I would be constipated. After the insertion, constipation was a problem for me. While my period never completely went away, I would bleed often, especially after strenuous activity, or even after feeling the piercing feeling. I dont think my uterus ever got used to the IUD. Even after making changes to my diet and being more active, I still managed to gain weight. The Mirena was an awful thing for me, and I am glad to be rid of it, although I have been cramping and lightly bleeding since I removed it.
I like Mirena, a lot. As with any birth control , or drug, there are side effects but the insertion was not mildly uncomfortable, nothing you cannot bear. The side effects arent often and are minimal, such as a little nausea or an occassional headache. Mirena is a wonderful Birth control method, very reliable and will make your periods a lot less annoying. I would do it again. Had mine for a a month now.
I am at the end of my second Mirena and I absolutely would recommend to anyone!!! I Stopped getting my period a year after the first insertion. The first year made my periods very sporadic and it became a lighter flow with each month until it completely stopped. I was very bad with remembering to take oral birth control and would frequently skip days , be late to pick it up from pharmacy etc. I also tried the patches which only made it easier because it was changed once a week, however, there was too many people getting blood clots from using it so I stopped. I decided to get the Mirena after the birth of my second child and have not had any problems or side effects or any bad experience in the 9 years I have had it inserted. I opted to replace it right after the removal of my first one since I was not planning to have any children at the time. The only uncomfortable experience is when you have it inserted, which is expected, but it is not anything more painful then bad period cramps. The first day I had spotted blood and had uncomfortable cramps and was relieved with 800 mg ibuprofen. It does not hurt when it is taken out. I have nothing but good things to say
I just had Mirena inserted yesterday on day 5 (of 7) of my period. I chose Mirena to help control the horrid pain bleeding and clots that I experience before and during my period. The insertion was honestly not as bad as I was anticipating. It was a little more discomfort than a Pap smear along with a period cramp that lasted for <10 secs (at least for me). I was concerned about feeling the pain from tenaculum clamping my cervix and the pain that I was imagining did not occur (I am told that it has to do with how much pressure is used to close the tenaculums grip to stabilize/position your cervix and uterus, i.e. Some docs may clamp it a little firmer/tighter than others). As far a bleeding goes I usually require a super tampon and a pad on day 5. I only have light to no spotting when I wipe today. I have some cramps but they are relieved with Advil and are no where near what I normally experience. It is only day 1 ladies so this post is intended to alleviate fear of insertion as I can not attest to anything else this early in the game. I took 1000mg of Tylenol and 800mg of Advil and it was tolerable. I would have benefitted from having a Xanax before hand because after rea
Light spotting immediately, but only for two weeks. A year later I'm period free and never worry about birth control. Best decision ever.
It's been 2 years since removal and I still can't get pregnant.
This method of birth control is very much worth it if you have patience and stick with it. In January of 2016, I had originally gone in for permanent birth control and it didn't work in my favor. So, after advice from a friend who was on her 3rd Mirena, I opted for the IUD and have had no regrets! My periods were very heavy and painful. I was not on any regular birth control previously and was not keen on getting back on it. I am 43 and have 2 kids with no plan to have any more. The first 2 months with bleeding were very unstable. I had more days of bleeding than not. After the 3rd month the bleeding slowed and became regular. 4th month my period was much lighter and on time (I use a period tracker on my phone). 5th month, my period was even lighter. This is my 6th month and my period was 3-4 spots a day for 4 days. I am hopeful, based on my friend's experience, that my period will continue to be as light as it has been these 2 months. Also, the first 2-3 months were very much a roller coaster of hormonal emotions which have leveled out substantially. I did have horrible mood swings the first 3 months. Last month, and even when my period was due to arrive, I noticed ve
I've had the Mirena for over 2 years now and I'm seriously thinking of getting it removed. I've been getting BVs every other week and sex is becoming embarrassing because of the smell. I've never had this many BVs in my life. On top of that, I also experience the mood swings, tender breasts and even a weird skin like discharge. I love the fact of no periods, but can't deal with having a BV every other week. I've made an appointment with my Gyn to get it removed.
I was worried about weight gain. If anything I think it helped - especially with the poochy belly problem. It also helped with heavy periods although I still get mine. It did not hurt and has stayed in for 2 years. A lot of people write only about negative effects. This was super easy, not painful, and did not cause weight gain.
I give a chance to Mirena due to PCOS and estrogen dominant symptoms! No kids and 39 years old. Insertions was painful but quick. Just had first period with little bleeding! Almost all my symptoms of night sweats, creavings, sleeping well, no irritability or bloated! Love it!
DO. NOT. I REPEAT DO NOT GET THIS THING. It threw my hormone so out of whack that I pulled it out on day 3. I was so messed up that I could not be around people without wanting to kill them or bursting into tears. Do not ever get this thing.
Horrible experience for the 3 weeks I had it in and 2 weeks post removal. My anxiety sky rocketed. I'm typically a very outgoing and sociable individual. This birth control gave me an irregular heartbeat, anxiety out of nowhere bad enough to make me want to stay home. My anxiety came with depression, which was very scary! I was irritated about everything, stupid little things for no reason. I was constantly in fear of when my next anxiety attack was going to hit even when I felt "okay" for the short time being. Sex wasn't enjoyable. My blonde facial seemed more noticeable. Please do your research people, especially if you're prone to anxiety and depression. Finally two weeks after removal I feel great again, thank God.
I hope someone finds this of help! I'm 27, no kids. I suffer from severe migraines, mostly hormonal. I used to use my migraines (along with other symptoms obviously) as the tale tale sign that I was about to start my period. I would start to see spots, my fingertips would go numb, trouble speaking, taste of metal...then 15 minutes later, the migraine pain would set in. And inevitably one or two days later, I'd start my period. I wasn't able to be on any type of estrogen based birth control because it causes migraines. I tried oral progestin birth control, but was having a period every 2 weeks and still migraines. I got Mirena 4 months ago. I'm seeing a pattern on this site! I had it put in one morning and they never told me to stay home from work. The insertion absolutely sucked but I have a very high pain tolerance so I managed. I then went to work. I'm a hairstylist so I stand for ten hours a day. An hour into my day, the cramping started. I popped tylenol like it was candy and made it through the day. Long story short, IT DOES HURT. The cramping continued for me because I have "a small frame a tight uterus" according to my doctor. So much so, I couldn't sleep for weeks and my po
I got Mirena about a week ago. The procedure was pretty painful, but my gyne was very skilled gave me very clear warning of when the pain was coming and how long it would last. All up the pain went for about 10 seconds. Afterwards I wasn't able to go back to work because of cramping and light headed. I also got some cold/ hot sweats and a bit shakey. I went home and found a heat pack worked the best to help the cramps. Over the last week since I got the iud I've had some slight bleeding on and off. My partner and I had intercourse for the first time last night and he didn't feel or get pricked by the strings. I was a bit worried about this as other people had mentioned it as a problem, but it wasn't for us (even though he is quite well equipped if you know what I mean!) I'm really happy with my choice to get Mirena. Yes the procedure is no walk in the park, but I feel empowered to take control of my own fertility and optimistic about this intervention helping me manage my endometriosis.
I've had my Mirena in for almost 4 years now and it was the best decision I've made. I saw an obgyn rather than a GP for insertion because he freezes the cervix. I am nulliparous and wanted to minimise pain. I could still feel pressure and some cramping. Prior to insertion, he measured my uterus to ensure that my uterus was large enough, since I had never been pregnant. I also got a post-insertion ultrasound to ensure it was fitting properly. My doctor gave me tea and monitored me for 30 mins then sent me home with a couple percocets for pain. The doctor warned me of the dangers of having unprotected sex with the IUD, as it can increase your risk of PID if you have sexually transmitted diseases (such as chlamydia and gonorrhoea) that can sometimes be asymptomatic conditions. I think this is an important warning, as PID is very serious and can result in infertility. I did have ovarian cysts for the first time in my life after the insertion of my IUD. I no longer get cysts but do experience phantom periods, where I will have cramping, breakouts and be emotional and occasional this is accompanied by very light spotting. IUDs are the most effective form of birth control
Okay, I've just gotten this birth control today... Yes the insertion does hurt when getting it but so far everything is good. I will keep an update for whom ever is wondering. I switched from nexplanon(which isn't a good birth control! The side affects are horrible) to this one.
I had the iud inserted about a month ago. I was excited to try something new after just having a baby. My friends all have it and have had no problems with it. Two weeks ago I had cramping that felt worse then my contractions but because it was new and got better after a day I figured it was just part of the process. Turns out it wasn't. Last week I went to doctor for the mild cramping and in ability to eat for five days without pain. Later that night I had emergency surgery to remove the iud from my abdomen. It had broke through my uterus about two weeks prior.When I got the iud I knew there was a risk, but didn't figure I would be that less than 1%. Like anything the iud works good for most people, but then again not for everyone. Hope this helps.
I had Mirena put in about a week and a half ago. I am 23 and have never had children, but was never warned that the insertion would be a problem. Once I arrived for the appointment I sat down with the the mid wife who would be inserting the Mirena and she said it would be "uncomfortable". I literally never experienced a pain like this. I was gripping the table and moaning the entire time, which was truly like 10 seconds of actual excruciating pain, but it still was awful. Afterward I stayed on the table for about 15 minutes because I felt like I would fall over if I stood up. I didn't realize how badly this would affect me so I never took time off of work. I went straight to work after the procedure and was miserable. Fast forward to today...I feel relatively normal, aside from occasional sharp pains or cramping. My boyfriend and I have had sex once since I had the Mirena inserted and I was completely freaked out the entire time so I definitely didn't enjoy myself. If he went too far inside me, I started to feel a similar sharp sensation like when I had Mirena inserted. Definitely not as terrible, but enough to make me nervous. I am still bleeding daily, but it is completely manage
I absolutely love the mirena, as it is the best birth control I have ever used. Then explain had made me bleed for 6 months straight and the pills gave me awful headaches. So when I decided to switch it was a last resort. I am 16 years old and when I had the IUD inserted I was not on my period. I have never had any kids either, so the pain when I got it in was pretty bad but 100% worth it. It only took maybe 7 minutes? Considering I'm so young and could deal with the pain says a lot. I experienced cramping for the rest of the day but the next day I was fine. I have had it for 2 months now and have not had a period yet. I absolutely love the Mirena and recommend it for all ages!
I have had mirena for four years now. I honestly can say it is effective. I chose mirena because I've tried the pills but didn't do anything but make me sleepy, then depo. It worked but couldn't keep going to the doc and gained weight. Mirena is effective. But, I've experienced the most pain I've ever felt in my life. While w/ mirena. I had a ovarian cyst. Never had one prior to mirena. It would twist. Cause the most pain ever. The pain went away 1 year ago. Don't need surgery. Thank god. But I do not want to ever experience that again. I am skeptical about using mirena again once I get mirena removed. I don't like the fact that mirena is still in place (ultrasound reviewed) yet I can't feel the strings. It will be painful just to remove mirena. I am thinking about either back to depo, nexplanon or skyla. I have to discuss with obgyn. But I must warn about mirena. Mirena can cause ovarian cyst and that can be a plain. Also always check your strings.
I recieved mirena 3 weeks ago. Let me tell you the incertion was so increadibly painful i was not expecting it. I have not stopped cramping yet it ranges from moderate to severe and i cant sit for long periods of time or i start getting a fever and chills due to the pain. Im bloated and swollen and my lower abdomen is tender to the touch. I have had 2 children and my Doctor told me i shouldnt feel cramping at all. Well its the worst pain ive been through in a while even my child labor wasnt this bad. I have an appointment next monday to get it out. Oh and i havent stopped bleeding ive gon through an entire 36 ct tampon box and half a box of 108 ct panty liners. I think there may be something wrong for sure. But enough about me, my husband and I tried to be intimate and the strings poke him the entire time and one apparently ...went inside his urethra. He wont have sex with me until i get it out due to the pain it causes him. Not that i want to being in this much pain and bleeding so much. Absolutly not for me.
This is my completely honest review of the Mirena IUD. I've been on it for 3 months now, and so far I love it! Even though I love it now, I gave it 4 stars because of one thing: The insertion. At my first appointment, the doctor let me know that since I'd never had a child (I'm currently 21 with no children) that my cervix would never have been enlarged and therefore the insertion would be "uncomfortable" and that I take pain medication (tylenol type stuff) an hour prior to coming in (which I did). I went in not thinking much of it, since I'm pretty fine when it comes to pain. I've had broken bones, hurt myself playing sports, I have 2 tattoos - I thought nothing of it. However, being completely 100% honest... The pain was like NOTHING I ever expected. I was in so much pain that I apparently turned white, and they had me lie down for awhile after. I straight up felt so dizzy and was very close to vomiting (which I must stress, NEVER happens to me, ever). I was incredibly glad that I had gotten my mom to come with me to the appointment, since I was in so much agony I couldn't even drive myself home. I waddled upstairs straight to my bed, and popped 2 Tylenol 3's from my wisdom
Yes, insertion is uncomfortable but more than tolerable. I'm a mother I can tell you that childbirth is the most excruciating pain I have ever endured. I don't look forward to reinsertion but I deal with it. The cramping is moderate and only lasted until the next day. I would highly recommend Mirena and I can't tell you how much I enjoy not having a period. I have used this product twice, 10 years in total, with absolutely no issues. I recently decided to try the Paragard because it lasts 12 years and doesn't utilize hormones. It's been over a month and I still have no complaints! Understandably people have different experiences but for me, this is the most effortless and reliable birth control available so I think you're doing yourself a disservice not to try it.
I have had two different Mirenas and now going on 3rd so a total of being on the Merena for 10 years and love it! I haven't had a period in ten years!! The only problem I experienced was when its time to remove it and get a new one they had to surgically remove it because the string went in my cervix. I'd say it wasnt painful at all and the reinserted the next one after the removal. This is the only birth control I've been able to take without layers of my uterus coming out of me so I can say I'm extremely happy with my Mirena!!
I am 25 years old and have had 3 kids and let me tell you my experience with the mirena iud, So first of all, the in and out in 5-10 minutes was a lie for me the procedure lasted between 45 minutes to an hour and it was extremely painful so much that the doctor had to stop and give me shot for the pain YES A SHOT DOWN THERE! during the procedure, I was shaking in pain, tears going down my cheeks, all I could do was cover my eyes and think how much I regretted getting this done, finally the procedure was over, I immediately felt lower stomach pain through out the whole day and for the next 2 to 3 days I stayed in bed, but to make it all worse I haven't stopped bleeding since I got it inserted and that was May 19th 2016 and it is Now June 4th 2016 I'm on my second bag of pads and getting this thing removed next week I had a bad feeling about it and my mom told me not to do it, despite all of that I got it anyway and it is one of the worst decisions I have made in my life and I am not exaggerating, I DO NOT RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE!
I felt like it was important to share my experience with the Mirena IUD because I have found other people's reviews so helpful. I got the Mirena two months ago for a number of reasons, namely: 1) PMS. I had always struggled with PMT and noticed that my emotional symptoms were really affecting my relationship and my career. It was clear that my symptoms were tied to PMT because the pattern was always the same – exactly five days before my period was due, I would feel anxious, restless and irritable and any issues I had been suppressing would come bubbling up to the surface. I'd feel fat and bloated and my irritability would continue to increase until the moment my period started, which is when I would feel a wave of calm wash over me. I always knew if my period was going to start the next day because I would experience acute insomnia and anxiety the night before it was due, which was incredibly tough if I had something important to do the next day like an interview or presentation. Even though I relished the sense of calm, which accompanied the onset of my period, my period also caused me to become absent-minded and forgetful, which really affected my work. I would also
I just got the mirena placed in yesterday. I have had 2 c sections, my last one was 4 years ago so the doctor had to dilate my cervix to place the mirena. All in all the pain was about a 5 for me which is really not that bad because I am a wimp. The dilation was not painful at all. The whole process took about 10 minutes because the nurse had to run out and get the instrument to dilate me. I had very light cramping yesterday and was a tiny bit nauseous and tired but today I feel a lot better, just a tiny bit of cramping here and there. I am spotting a bit but nothing a thin liner can't handle. I will post another review in a couple months to let others know how it's working out.
I have had Mirena for 2 years now. I am a healthy (5'8", 150 lbs) 24 year old with no children or desire for them, and I mainly opted for the IUD because my PA said it was my best chance at stopping my periods. Not getting knocked up is great, too. The placement of the IUD was pretty painful, although I do have a low tolerance for uterine pain. I bled somewhat heavily after the procedure and did nothing the rest of the day. The next morning I was fine, and I had no periods or spotting, mood swings, or cramps for about 1.5 years. About six months ago, I started bleeding again on almost a monthly basis. I'm sure everyone's body is different, but I have noticed that eating clean (vegan and mostly vegetables) and completing at least 30-60 minutes of physical activity/day seems to stop my periods. So for those of you who are sick and tired of being miserable and bleeding needlessly every month for a week, this does seem to be the magic combination for me, so I hope it works for you.
Well after reading horror stories I went ahead and had the device inserted on 5/10/16 and today 6/2/16 had it removed. The insertion to me was nowhere near as bad as the stories I read before hand, it wasn't a glorious feeling but definitely tolerable. I was fine the first couple weeks with slight cramping then all of a sudden 7 days ago woke with horrible cervical and lower back pain. I'm not talking about the "I have cramps and need chocolate and a heating pad", I'm talking about wanting to curl in a ball and cry for my momma kind of pain. Finally tired of it went this morning and it was removed due to so much pain and come to find out my body was trying to reject and push it out. I can't say it's a horrible choice as I only had it almost a month but I can say if your body rejects it or if it moves etc you will feel it and it's horrible. Good luck to any trying this but definitely don't let the horror stories scare you....go try for yourself it may be great for you or bad and you go have it removed which by the way I felt nothing having it removed.
I had Mirena inserted for 9 months. I liked it overall but did have some side effects; mild weight gain, migraines got worse, my anxiety got worse. My doctor had already explained the possibility of increased migraines and anxiety as I already suffered from them. Then after 9 months of use I find out that I have an ectopic pregnancy. I would still recommend Mirena as I understand that very little people actually get pregnant while using this form of birth control.
I've had Mirena for six months now, had no problems what so ever. Honestly would definitely recommend for anyone, who's already has one kid it makes it easier getting the mirena put in. I had little to no cramping or bleeding. I still have somewhat regular periods, but I can't wear tampons since I've had mierna, but that's just me.
I am on my third Mirena and it is a miracle. Although I still get my period, it lasts about two days and is very light. I have an 18 year-old daughter- no other pregnancies
Best bc out there truly. I had tried EVERYTHING before it, pills, patch, rings - everything except for injections. Pills made me crazy emotion for YEARS. I cannot believe that I used them for so long. In comparison this has been by far the best method for me. My boyfriend at the time had read about iuds and brought it up to me - glad I listened. Insertion and the following two weeks are not easy. The pricedure was very painful for me and I felt swollen for almost a week afterwards. After two weeks or so is when i stopped thinking about it and it just was this invisible thing. Its been 4.5 years now on it and planning on doing it all again for a few more years.
I have had my mirena IUD for maybe 5 months now. The procedure to have it inserted was very unpleasant and painful, however; very quick (45 seconds). I felt nauseous and lightheaded during insertion but this was to be expected after having your cervix forced open. I experienced severe cramps and mild (non-menstrual) bleeding for a day or so but quickly felt normal again. Overall, the procedure and recovery was really not that bad in retrospect. My period still came for 3 months as usual but definitely lasted longer and progressively got lighter. This is the first month where I have had my period without any blood (extremely light, no cramps, just a liner), so I don't have any complaints there, however; it seems that I have traded in the regular pms symptoms for some extreme new ones... I used to have pretty bad cramps and discomfort but now I get the worst headaches. I've always suffered migraines but these headaches are just dry and harsh and just come and go relentlessly. Before I would typically have 1 psycho day, 1 cravings day and 1 emotional day for pms and now I have a whole week of no patience and getting really emotional. I never experienced acne problems before and I ha
Horrible birth control, this did not mix well with my body chemistry. I had a bad feeling about the Mirena and I should have listened to my gut instinct instead of my doctor. Immediately after getting this IUD put in, I got mad at my husband and started crying within 45 minutes after leaving my appointment. I'm prone to anxiety but this IUD made my anxiety shoot through he roof. I couldn't study for my finals or take my test effectively because I was too busy reassuring myself that I was fine and trying to decrease my rapid heart beat. I also notice when I drink coffee or have an alcoholic beverage, I tend to get depressed. Like so depressed that I couldn't even find joy in my sons which makes me more depressed. I don't have any reason to be depressed, I have two amazing sons who are my world and an amazing husband who will do anything for me. This depression scared me so much that I cut alcohol and caffeine out of my diet which really sucks because I love coffee and I love enjoying a drink every now and then. Sexual intercourse also feels different. It's like there's no end inside you. My sex drive has completely disappeared and I feel tired. I went in to get an ultrasound to make
Hi! I just wanted to put a review out here for anyone thinking about getting Mirena soon! I know that there are so many reviews from people saying that the insertion is so incredibly painful, which scares some people off from a fantastic bc method! I just had mine inserted about 7 hours ago and sure, I felt some mild discomfort during, but the only painful part was when my doctor injected me with something down there to prevent further bleeding! And that was just a pinch and I'm a wimp about needles. Honestly, the whole process took about five minutes and was uncomfortable, but not painful! And in the hours after, I'm just experiencing some moderate cramping and spotting! Make note, I had mirena inserted during my period and took 800mg of ibuprofen 40 minutes prior. Also I have never had a child, so that makes it more uncomfortable. Don't let negative reviews dismay you from having yours inserted! Everyone experiences it differently.
I have had the IUD since the middle of March. I have been experiencing weight gain and severe back pain. The back pain lasted the past three weeks and so I made an appointment to have it removed today and I am already feeling better.
I HAD THE MIRENA PUT IN THREE DAYS AGO TO CONTROL MY PERIOD. FIRST OFF, THEY SAID MILD CRAMPING FEELING. WAY OFF THE SCALE ON THAT DESCRIPTION. PAIN WAS UNREAL, ALSO SCOOTED AWAY FROM DOCTOR AND WAS CRYING. PAIN LASTED ALL THAT DAY. I ALSO HAVE STABBING PAINS WHEN I SIT DOWN, SO I TRY STANDING AT WORK INSTEAD. PAIN WAKES ME UP IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT, SO BARELY NO SLEEP. I HAVE NO CHILDREN AND THE DOCTOR NEVER DISCUSSED THE SIZE OF MY UTERUS IN REGARDS TO HAVING THIS PUT IN. I REALLY WANT TO HAVE IT REMOVED ALREADY BUT I AM GOING TO WAIT ONE WEEK TO SEE IF THE PAIN GOES AWAY. I DO NOT SUGGEST THIS FOR ANYONE. WILL DO A FOLLOW UP REVIEW NEXT WEEK.
Hi I got my iud put I the last week of December 2015 I was 19 when I got it with no kids it hurt a bit because I never had kids and didn't take good pain medicine I had horrible cramps for a day and a half . My period is very light it's like spotting last month I had it for about a week and a half and this month nothing they say 6 months to a year it will go em away but everyone is different
I had Mirena for two years, the first six months I had unconfortable symptoms, bleeding, abdominal pain and gained 10 pounds. After two years I star with terrible migrain headaches and a lot tiredness so I removed and have my life back. The good things, sex without risk and light periods.
My doctor ordered an ultrasound to make sure my uterus was appropriately sized. (I highly recommend this, as I imagine a good amount of these negative reviews are due to poor fit). The insertion was one of the worst pains I've experienced, but extremely brief. I've never had children, so my cervix needed to be dilated, which caused extreme cramping. Take some ibuprofen before the appointment, and continue as needed.
Just got the Mirena. The procedure was a bit uncomfortable, but it was over very fast. I was worried I would have terrible cramps after reading through all these forums, but after a few minutes of discomfort, the pain went away. So far no pain and I feel fine, but I'm going to report back once it's been up there for a few weeks to a month. I was really nervous about getting the Mirena. I hope it works out. I'm mostly worried because I don't want to have terrible acne or gain any more weight. Fingers crossed it actually helps with acne and doesn't mess with weight fluctuations (unless it's helping me to lose weight, that is). The doctor said it can actually help to improve skin and prevent acne. Let's see!
I'm just going to start this off with...IF YOU HAVENT HAD A BABY GET SKYLA INSTEAD! Today I went in to get my mirena birth control put in. What should be a quick thing turned out to be about 10 minutes of terrible pain (bad enough that I was scooting away from the doc and crying). Finally I told her she needed to stop. After a short break we decided to try skyla (lasts three years and is a little smaller). That took less than a minute to insert and it only just for about 5 second. The reason mirena was a problem for me was because I have not had kids yet and have a very small cervix.
I have three beautiful children and decided that was enough. I had the mirena iud put in after my son who is almost four years old. I thought it was a godsend! No pregnancy scares lighter/shorter periods. Then after about 2 years I started getting some adverse side effects. My periods would come whenever they wanted for however long they wished. One month I would have it for two weeks the next I wouldn't have anything for three months. So it was a constant worry as to when to wear a feminine product. I also gained 40 pounds while on mirena. I work out regularly and eat right so needless to say it had to go. Finally after deciding that I would much rather be holding a beautiful baby than people thinking I looked like I was pregnant with a baby I had it removed. I had it removed three days ago. Painless and quick. The first day I spotted a little second day nothing but woke up this morning to a murder scene sort of say. Very heavy bleeding (literally 4 tampons within an hour fully saturated) tmi sorry. And blood clots the size of golf balls. I called my dr and she said that's normal and to expect that for up to two weeks,take iron supplement, and get rest. Not only was it s
Today I went in to have the Mirena inserted by my OBGYN. The prep time took about 15 minutes, which consisted of checking my uterus and getting a local on my cervix. The prep was more uncomfortable than the actual placement, but neither I would say was very painful. When the procedure was done I felt fine for a few minutes then all of a sudden I felt like I was in labor. I have delivered vaginally and the pain felt exactly like that. I felt dizzy, nauseous, chilly with the shakes, sweaty (my shirt was soaked), constant muscle spasms in my legs and abdominopelvic area, frequent contractions, and I almost passed out. I laid there for over 30 minutes with a cold wash cloth, a fan on me, and an emesis bag in hand. Finally, the Dr. asked if I would like to wait it out or remove it, and I opted to have it removed. He said I was his first patient to have it removed same day and react to the procedure as I did. I consider myself to have a high pain tolerance, but that was beyond unbearable. I realize everyone is different, so don't make any decisions based solely on my expierence. I left the office feeling embarrassed and defeated.
I had the Mirena done yesterday and Im feeling normal symptoms today ....pinching pain from time to time and and spotting. I had two viginal births, the last was nearly 17 years ago. This proceedure was very painful for me. Im told it was due to the fact that my uterus opening was very small. I would never have gone through it had I have known how much it hurt.... i can't believe they do this without a local. I was led to believe it would be a little uncomfortable.....its was brutal. Im a tough cookie...i saw it through....but i was crying. So I would just like to put it out there....not for fear...but it is not always as its portrayed. I hope now that its worth it and I have the 5 year protection it offers.
I don't recommend Mirena to those who are depressed because it worsens the symptoms of depression. I experienced a lot of tiredness and fatigue. I also had a big appetite while using it. I decided to remove it and I notice a great change in mood,no fatigue at all and an appetite decrease.
I had the Mirena out today and I also feel a great sense of releif. i only had it in for less than 6 months but they were a trying 6 months! I'm 47 and have never had children, my periods were becoming quite heavy and long and I was told by numerous friends that the mirena would change my situation and my quality of life would be impoved. I guess the mirena isn't for everybody I felt incredible pain when it was inserted and have had period pain for about 4 weeks after and have had non stop bleeding since the initial procedure. Also Ive felt miserable and low sex drive too. Maybe its psychological but I would suggest reading up on the Mirena before you have the procedure and be prepared for at least 6-12 month of craziness!
The mirena has been use been used twice for the last 10 years, it was easy being taken out but a pain being put in again other than that it's great.
With all the negative reviews I just wanted to share my story. I had mirena inserted 6 weeks after my daughter was born. I love mirena! I've had it for 3 years now and its actually helped me lose weight, my face has cleared, and my periods have disappeared. I had 5 months of longer than usual cycles but since then they have been scarce! Every women is different so you will never know if you'll love it unless you try! If you hate it, its as simple as 1 2 3 to get it removed. Good luck ladies
Just got my mirena in this morning. I have two kids at 26 years old. Procedure was quick! It pinched for a second but nothing uncomfortable and I didn't have any cramps afterwards. I did take ibuprofen before the procedure. So far so good! I'll review again in a few weeks.
I have had the Mirena for three years. I loved it for the first two. I started to have a light period at the beginning of the third year. My period was regular but I can feel ovarian cysts each month before the onset of my period. I also am experiencing migraine headaches. My most recent period was about 15 days late, and I've experienced my normal PMS symptoms for over 20 days now. I feel very depressed, and I am worried that my hormones are way out of whack. Just wondering if anyone else had this happen...
Do not get mirena if you have a past history of sexual abuse. It was very difficult to put in and it's been two days and I'm still bleeding very heavy. The insertion process caused a slight tare on my cervix because of scaring due to past abuse.
I got Mirena removed today and I feel fabulous! Like when you take off your extra pointy high heels after walking for milles and miles. It made me bleed, cramp and bloat for 7 months every day since I got it. The doctors kept saying is normal, your body will adapt. No is not!!! I feel relief today after getting it out. Maybe it works for some people but definetly not for me.
I was suffering from very heavy painful periods and after being fobbed off with different things for 3 years I was finally offered the wonder coil Mirena. This wonder coil could end my periods and give me back my life..... I had the coil inserted whilst under general anesthetic following an exploratory procedure that confirmed there was nothing sinister going on in my womb. The first day after the procedure was fantastic, I felt absolutely fine. This was short lived. The second day began to feel bloating in my stomach, there was constant pressure on my bladder and then the discomfort built up as the day went on. This intensified to the point that I was in tears. This from a woman who has had 2 babies, 4 impacted wisdom teeth removals and a breast reduction. Initially I was only spotting blood. But this was for about 3 week. During this time I was in discomfort the whole time and felt more aching/cramping in my right side. Then after week 4 the pain intensified and I got my first period, this was painful and lasted 9 days. Then I went back to spotting. Every time I wiped there was blood. This cycle continued for 5 long months. In addition I totally lost my sex drive. I mean not ev
I've had my Mirena in for about 2 months now. The procedure was painless and done rather quickly. It wasn't until about 2 weeks after getting it did I start to experience very bad mood swings and anxiety. I'm a normally optimistic person but the Mirena definitely brought out a bad side in me. I'm getting it removed soon... If you decide to get it I hope your experience is much better than mine has been.
I got my first mirena inserted after the birth of my second son in 2008. I just had it removed and replaced with a second one today. Yes it's been 7 1/2 years and it was effective the whole time. I speak very highly of this form of birth control. With the first one I did bleed for about a month but mostly spotting. And then nothing for the last 7+ years. Having it taken out was so simple and I felt absolutely no pain. Putting the second one in I had slight cramping and still do obviously since it was done this morning... but not continuously. Also very minimal spotting but no different from the first time. I read so many horror stories on this but I just wanted to share my experience because I do believe people need to be aware that for some it may have negative effects but for me I would do it over and over again. To all thinking about it I wish you the best of luck and hope you have the same great experience I have had with it!
I got the mirena because I have terrible Migraines and the birth control pills were making them even worse. I got the IUD a year and a half ago - my doctor told me nothing about insertion - it was very painful and I almost passed out and had terrible cramps for a few days. After I got use to it - it was a great birth control! I still had periods every month - however the past 8 months - I started getting a ton of bladder infections. Maybe 1-2 per month. I also drink a ton of water - and pee a lot in general - but after I got the mirena - I noticed I was peeing way too much. I dealt with it for a year and a half....I probably peed maybe 20-30 times a day. 8-9 times each night and way too much during the day. My doctor didn't think this was causing this. About 3 weeks ago I started having terrible pain down in my lady parts and I wasn't close to my period. I went in for an ultrasound and I have ruptered cysts...not saying the mirena is the cause of that - but I went in for my yearly checkup and decided to get my mirena removed due to the many bladder infections - the pee party that I had every single day - and possible cysts. I got the mirena removed about 2 weeks ago - I now pee l
Im a 26 year old female in a committed 3 year relationship with my boyfriend. Had the Mirena inserted a year and 1/2 ago. Throughout my lifetime before the Mirena I've had a history of depression and hormonal issues taking birth control. Since the age I was sexually active at 16 I tried every other the counter option: the ring, pills , patch, condoms even tried the diaphragm. On top of this I would have extremely painful periods in which I would lay around all day and take close to 12 Advil daily. One doctor recommended the IUD to me. At this time the IDU was fairly new and I was not comfortable doing the procedure. Fast forward to 6 years later I finally got the courage to follow through with my boyfriend holding my hand. The insertion procedure was extremely painful for me because my cervix is very small and tilted and i've never had kids. I took the rest of the day off work and I was back to work the next day. I was nauseous and a bit dizzy but that's all. My periods are now very very little compared to before I would have an extremely heavy flow for a week. Now they last a few days, if that, with minimal blood.... and best part usually NO CRAMPS!! I gained 6 pounds when I first
I did it from 2007 to 2012..5 years. No period. And soon is 5 years expired only very light periods. I love it. Ever since that I got my regular periods heavy to a point of tampon and pad at same time. I made my decision to have another mirena put it in. I let you know if the second one was as good as the first.
I'm 28 and mother of a 1 year old. I had the IUD inserted just over 6 weeks ago. I had slight cramping during the procedure and cramping the next few days. Overall I didn't have an awful experience having the IUD put in. I have bled just about everyday since I've had it- MAYBE 5 days total that I haven't (not consecutive) I have had an increase in anxiety at night to the point of taking Zzzquil to help me fall asleep. I've had anxiety prior but not like this where I was having panic attacks at night all the time. I also have had severe headaches. All these things combined I wouldn't recommend this birth control. Everyone is different but this is not for me! Hope to have it removed soon.
I have had this IUD for 4 years with no problem!! Until the past 2 months. My IUD went north and now have to get surgery to remove this. Everyone's body is different good luck and don't let my experience make your discussion.
I just got the Mirena put in today 5/5/2016. I read so many reviews about it being super painful and people getting nausea and almost fainting. I experienced none of that. The doctor put my IUD in, in less than 5min. There was a little cramping during the insertion but not really during the sound. I am a little crampy on and off but nothing major. I took Advil before the appointment but nothing since. I am hoping my body reacts good to this and my periods stop altogether. I will write another review in a few weeks.
I was in Nuva Ring for 5 years and wanted something different, to ultimately eliminate my period and was told an IUD was the best bet. Keep in mind I am 18 and have never had a child. So when I had the Mirena inserted it was extremely uncomfortable and extremely painful. I quickly broke into a cold sweat, got very pale, so dizzy, and had terrible nause, my blood pressure also dropped extremely low. I laid on the table in the doctors office for about an hour until I got myself together, but still had to call someone for a ride home. Afterward I had terrible cramping for about 2 weeks, along with bleeding. My doctor said the cramping was due the fact that my uterus was so small because I have never had any children, so I was just getting used to it being there. The cramping has since went away ( It is over a month later ) but I am still bleeding, it is way less than a period, not clotty either. When I think it's done, it will start again. My doctor said it is just what your body does until it gets used to it. Other wise I have no complaints, other than the bleeding being EXTREMELY inconvenient and becoming expensive ( tampons ) but I have already come this far so I'm going to wait i
I had a lot of pain tolerance in the start of having this in me but I had to take it out after 3 1/2 years as I started to get light bleeding and pain in my belly aches all the time. It was very painful to get it taken out of my belly.it felt as my whole insides where coming out as well... I had sex without it and I felt so much better that it is out of me... I hope that my experience is good one.. Good luck
I had the mirena for 5 years then I had it taken out to have my second child, I immediately had it put back in a month after giving birth to my second child, I would reccomend this to anybody who wants a reliable birth control and lighter periods! I love it and I've had it on & off for a total of 6 years now! It's obviously a little uncomfortable getting it inserted but so worth it!
The best choice I made with birth control by far. I got Mirena when I was 19, and had no children. I have had it for 4 years now and if I do not plan on getting pregnant immediately after I will choose an IUD as my first choice. The first several months were bumpy, lots of cramps and off and on bleeding. After about 4 months I noticed no period at all. This continued until I began to have regular sex (I assume my hormones reacted) then I began to have light periods and some cramping before hand. The biggest complaint I have is that I have gotten numerous yeast infections within the past year, some doctors will tell me it is because of the bacteria that collects on the string. Others will tell me that would not cause this. Since taking vaginal medication this is not an issue. Overall, this is a girls best friend in contraception, little to worry or forgetting the pill, and my period is nearly non existent! I do fear having it taken out but that's a day for another review.
I had Mirena inserted in August of 2015. Fairly painful at insertion, but not unbearable. Luckily it's brief. I did have cramping for about the first month. Period slowed a lot, not its either non existent or it spots a little. A panty liner is usually enough. It's a little unpredictable which is inconvenient. Sometimes I'll also have cramps but no bleeding. I like it because I don't have to think about it.
Insertion was incredibly painful even after having a child vaginally. I experienced bloating, weight gain, headaches, and completely lost my sex drive. My periods only come every couple of months at random times. After insertion I bled for 4 months straight. Worst experience ever.
I have spotted ever since I got Mirena inserted, ugh! So annoying.. I'll stop for an hour or so and than the next time I go to the bathroom I'm bleeding again. I'm bleeding heavy now and cramping this is no fun! My sex drive sucks!!!!! :( My back is achy, I'm bloated all the time I swear I'm gaining weight instead of losing any. I'm breastfeeding as well, but yeah only thing about this is with me being a busy momma I don't have to worry about taking a pill everyday I just have to deal with all these stupid side effects. No bueno!!!
I've had the Mirena about 3 months. 1st month was fine. I experienced some extra bleeding in which I was warned about... After the 1st month I began having a white milky discharge (no smell) , slight itching, and slight constant burning in the outter vaginal area. Went to the physician only for my cultures to be returned normal... After 30 more days I began having acne and the slight burning continued .... I became very depressed and purchased every feminine product I could in the store, visited the doctor again... Only to receive normal results again. I absolutely do not want to be touched sexually and I'm very sad. The Mirena did not work for me at all and I would not recommend it to anyone. I'm getting it taken out as soon as possible.
Having not had a child previous, and also being on Depo for years so that I couldn't have it placed during a period, I was nervous about insertion... The insertion itself did NOT hurt very much, however they did need to manually dilate my cervix, which was incredibly uncomfortable, with severe cramping. After the IUD was placed, I stood up and immediately experienced horrible waves of nausea, tunnel vision, increased sound sensitivity, and was drenched immediately in sweat. I could barely make it to the chair to put on my underwear. When the nurse came in to give me the corresponding card to my Mirena, I described my symptoms and she said it had nothing to do with the IUD, but rather that this was my body's reaction to dilation, and that it was not at all uncommon. While that would have been nice to know before hand, I recovered within 20 minutes and was able to leave. I had severe cramping, even on 1200 mg of Ibuprofen, for the rest of the day. I DID go to a work out class that evening, which helped the cramping significantly. For the rest of the week, though, I had only minor on-and-off cramping. No spotting after the first day. Much less cramping on days after an evening work
It's going to hurt like hell for the first few weeks. But then you'll really never have another problem with it. Stay on ibuprofen. I mean really stay on it for the first few weeks. be prepared to bleed for about 4wweks on the front end too. I've had mine for five months and haven't bled since then and couldn't be happier with its effectiveness and the comfort level.
I just had it incserted today pain was 4/10 for like 40 seconds max the whole process lasted no more than 3 to 4 minutes, I had mild cramps about 45 minutes after and now feel little nausea, but no big deal. I will update my review after my 6 week check up.
I am 23 and got Mirena over a year ago. Having the device inserted was by far the most painful thing I have ever experienced--literally passed out from pain and could not drive home. I also had spotting every day for at least 5 months afterwards. I used to have horrible cramps where I couldn't even get out of bed. They have definitely gotten better, but I still get them and now they are a sharper pain rather than the dull achy feeling of most period cramps. My periods also last about 10 days now although my cycle is longer. I used to have a very high sex drive and now I have almost zero. It has not helped with acne either. Honestly the best thing about it is that I am not pregnant, everything else has been a pretty miserable experience.
Horrible anxiety and insomnia after removal until the natural detox.
I am 24 with no children. I got Mirena yesterday. I am not going to lie it was very painful for me. I took pain killers before hand and still cried when it was inserted. The good thing is that it only lasts for about 3 minutes and then it subsided. I had very severe cramping for 3 hours after, I went straight home took more painkillers and laid on a heating pad,which helped. I had some bleeding, but not that much. Today I woke up a little sore but the cramping has stopped, my doctor suggested I stay on pain meds/advil for a couple of days, so I am doing so. Overall I hope that means I wont have many problems with it in the future, because I like the idea of not taking a pill everyday for 5 years and super light/ no periods. If your deciding not to get it because your worried about the pain stop reading these comments and just go get it done. I worried for days about it and yeah it was painful but I am so glad I did it. Good Luck!
I had Morena placed and for 2 straight weeks I had heavy bleeding with horrible pain! After 2 weeks I started having large blood clots and could not leave the bathroom. I decided to take a shower after one of many messy days to have the Mirena IUD piercing my vaginal area. None the less, a whole month of discomfort and pain came from this.. Never again for me...
I do not recommend Mirena to any woman who has been sexually abused or sexually assaulted. I have unfortunately suffered through both and while i read about the process nothing prepared me for the anguish of having this put into my body. Having my legs spread open and vagina out there for people to see is hard, so paps are difficult for me, but the pain I felt well this was inserted was a trigger for me and though I normally have a high sex drive and love my partner, the thought of anything touching me down there is quite repulsive at this point.
Went on Mirena in 2014 after suffering major perimenupausal symptoms for 2 years. I was 42 and "too young", but my body was in peril. Bloating, raging pms that lasted all month long, night sweats, crawling skin, insomnia, you name it. I realized that I am high in estrogen and Mirena is progesterone so I finally relented bc I was tired of feeling bad all the time. Can't say I love it. My periods are very light, but I still get them and they last at least 2 weeks. I still get pms and bloating but it is milder. I am still tired all the time. While some of the symptoms have decreased, I am disappointed that I am not reaping the positive benefits everyone else brags about. Feels like the lesser of two evils to me... Oh well. I could be worse. I could be pregnant.
I had the Mirena inserted three days ago. I am 44 and am not having any more kids. I had one, but by c-section so my cervix has never been dilated. Because of that, insertion did hurt, but I expected that, and the whole process was done in 5 minutes tops. That day I went back to work after about an hour, when the pain subsided. I still am having some dull cramps 3 days later, but no bleeding after that first day. Taking ibuprofen for the pain. I hope this manages my heavy, very painful periods. I hope to use this until menopause blissfully comes along.
I have never been more satisfied with a birth control more than this... I had it for 5 years.. Taken out 3 weeks ago bc of its expiration... and am getting it again in 2 weeks... I would recommend it to any female not wanting to get pregnant!!
I have to be honest. I was absolutely mortified to get the mirena put in. I read horrible things about how painful it was during and after. I had mine put in 9 weeks PP. and I have to say.. BEST decision of my life. It did not hurt at all while getting put in. It was obviously uncomfortable, but it felt like a papsmear. My doctor asked me if I was ready for him to put the mirena in. I said yes (anticipating this extreme pinch and pain) and he said good because I'm already done. I had no idea he had put it in. I also had no pain or cramping whatsoever after! I love it!!!
Yesterday I had Mirena inserted. The worst thing I did, was come on here and read the reviews. Everyone else's experience had me scare to death. In reality, it was not that terrible. There is really nothing to compare it to, if anything it was just super super uncomfortable! Afterwards I did have some bleesing (spotting mostly) and it just feels like intense period cramps. I would highly recommend Mirena! Next month I go back for an ultrasound to make surw everything is just fine & I'm set for 5 years. My fiancé and I couldn't be happier! :) Good luck ladies!
This device had almost put me in the wheel chair, people before you take this make sure that you know of the real side effects that the manufacturer of this device is not telling you about it, this device had ruined my spine for life I have excruciating lower back pain during use that had diminished after removal, I don't have arthritis but this device can trigger this kind of disease, I am on of the lucky ones that all my life I been very healthy and my immune system is very good and did not develop arthritis. but I am still suffering with back pains and have no clue if it will ever go away, so I DO NOT RECOMEND THIS TO ANY WOMAN OUT THERE THAT IS LOOKING TO BE HEALTHY.
I rated this a Neutral 3 because I only had the Mirena inserted less than 2 weeks ago. My OBGYN recommended it after my second child as the best form of birth control and to control my heavy periods. I'm 42 and do not plan to have any more children. Insertion was easy and fairly painless. I took 600mg of ibuprofen one hour before and only had cramping for about one day. I did not read these reviews prior because I probably would not have gone through with it. So far I've had no side effects but I have been bleeding lightly daily which my doctor said can last up to 6 months! This has been annoying and I have not had sex yet because I want to see if the bleeding will stop in a few weeks. My best advice is to trust your doctor's recommendation, take pains meds an hour prior and relax. If you have had children I believe this is a great option. I'm hanging in there because I'm hoping this light bleeding will end soon and my period will lighten and/or go away. Good luck everyone!
I've had my Mirena for almost five months now. I had been on the pill for 5 years prior but was sick of constantly going to the pharmacy and remembering my pill everyday. As for the insertion, it was pretty awful, but it only lasted two minutes and it was over. It's a small price to pay every five years and I'd willingly do it again when my time is up. I had some mild cramping for about 45 minutes until I got home and curled up on the couch. I took about 750mg of ibuprofen and once I woke up from my nap I felt 100% back to normal. Mine was put in on my period and I had minimal spotting for two days after my period was set to end. Fast forward four months and I've never had any cramping or issues so far. Only complaint is that the change in hormones made get a few pimples here and there for the first two months. I have not gotten my period or had any spotting since then either. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who wants some long term birth control and the freedom of not having a period for 5 years.
I got the Mirena inserted about 7 weeks ago due to heavy menstruation. I had it inserted at a women's clinic who were very experienced with this IUD. Insertion took 7 minutes. It wasn't the best 7 minutes of my life, but it was manageable. I was told I would spot and cramp for 2-3 months. And to expect a regular period the first month. I spotted almost daily for the first 5 weeks, but not enough to even warrant a panty liner. Cramps came and went but were easily managed by an ibuprofen. I did not get my expected period. Went back at 5 weeks for a check up. My doctor told me that I would probably not get my period anymore. I went from changing a super plus tampon every 2-3 hours on my heavy days, to no period at all. Bliss, as I am about to go backpacking for several months. Done spotting. Cramps are gone. So freaking happy about the Mirena. I heard that the more experience the doctor has who inserts it, the better the experience. If you are getting this done, check out a women's clinic and make sure you ask them if they regularly insert these. Best decision I ever made! I would recommend this to anyone. Oh - and I am very sensitive to birth control but I had no
My Dr recommended I get the mirena because I suffer from irregular cycles which resulted with me having PCOS(polycystic ovarian syndrome) which causes your which causes your uterine wall to shed randomly and not monthly. It causes difficulty conceiving. I had it inserted June 2015 and during that time I bleednthe first 30days and then later spotted throughout. Never really completely stopped bleeding or became regular but I did get a normalcy of spotting every month. I recently had it removed after 10 months due to weight gain and mild depression. As I've recently married I hope that now I can get a regular cycle and ttc naturally
I've had my mirena since 11/2012. I had some bleeding off and on the first few months but since then, I rarely have a period! There's good and bad to this form of birth control. The good......well, I'm not pregnant lol. Virtually no periods. Long lasting (5years). The bad.....it's been 3 years and sex still hurts. I bleed almost every time after. I will have a sharp excruciating pain in NY lower right abdomen that will bring me to my knees. There's always a worry that the IUD has attached to something or moved or punctured something. I believe I'm gonna get if taken out soon. It's definitely great at preventing pregnancy, but there are definitely drawbacks as well.
I, too, was skeptical about the Mirena based on reviews from this website and others. I got it placed for two reasons - reliable birth control and to help my dysmenorrhea where I would pass out or feel dizzy/weak every month at the beginning of my cycle. I've never conceived so my cervix was tight. The insertion was uncomfortable - deep cramping and sharp pain at my cervix. The cramping that followed for the next week or so was awful, probably the worst I've ever felt - lots of heat packs and ibuprofen or tylenol! I spotted every day for the first month, then less and less each month afterwards. It's been in for 6 months and I spot lightly only a few days now. After the initial insertion period and month afterwards (which was terrible) the Mirena has been AWESOME. Seriously great! I haven't noticed any weight gain, no issues with systemic hormonal changes as far as I can tell -- I do seem slightly moodier/more weepy around my cycle now than I was before, but nothing too serious. The surety of the contraception is excellent - more reliable and safe than oral birth control. My partner notices the string occasionally but it is softening over time and we've both agreed that feel
I got the Mirena July 2015. The pain was the worst when the dr put it in. Seem to take forever. Although I'm sure along a few minutes. I spotted most of the first month. Each month the spotting got less and less. I only spot a couple days a month now. I started the Mirena for heavy periods. Other birth control gave me headaches. No headaches with Mirena. I still cramp a little about once a month. Reviews make Mirena out to be really bad. I think like all medication it works for some and not others. I works for me and I am glad.
I will never ever recommend this having it put in was a Breeze in for the first two weeks it was amazing But after that I started bleeding uncontrollably I called my doctor he said it was a normal side effect Not long after I started throwing up at least two or three times a week I experienced extreme fatigue and Muscle weakness To the point where putting bed sheets on a bed with a workout And would leave me extremely tired It caused uncontrollable and when I say uncontrollable I seriously mean uncontrollable mood swings to the point where I couldn't even control themI am currently counting down the days till I can get this thing removed my life has been nothing but a living hell ever since I got it and I do not recommend getting this
I just today got the IUD inserted today and ive never had a baby in 43 yrs on this earth and the pain was like a sharp mentrual cramp then it was done the rest of the day i have had very muld cramping off and on and very tolerable. I have 2 tennis ball sized fibroids and a lemon size cyst on my ovary. For over a year now ive been bleeding 2 and a half to 3 weeks outta the year. During my periods i becime anemic due to heavy bleeding and would use 2-3 boxes of the ultra tampons and a huge bag of pads. The pain during insertion was NOTHING compared to the pain i experienced during my period. Hopefully this will reduce my periods greatly. After a month or 2 i will comment again with the results. I just wanted to comment and say the pain wasnt bad at all more discomfort than anything
I would like to share my experience with Mirena. First and foremost, I was very skeptical about getting the Mirena - the reviews on this site are more bad than good. However, I went for it and I will never turn to any other birth control. The insertion was the worst pain I had ever experienced in my 24 years of living. I have never been pregnant nor have I ever had a baby. That was the main reason for the terrible pain. When the doctor had attempted the Mirena, he had to dialate my cervix. The Mirena had trouble going in bed cause my cervix was not dialated. The pain is comparable to period cramps, times fifteen. I was sweating when he was done inserting the IUD. The process took about ten minutes and when he was done, I had to lie on the bed until the pain had decreased. I had terrible cramps for the rest of the night and when I had woke up the next morning, I was still hurting but it was bearable. The cramps had dissipated after three days. Each day, the pain would be less and less. I have been completly fine after the last day of my cramps. I had just started my period, a month after insertion and it is very light! The reason why I chose Mirena was because my periods were
I had my mirena inserted 3.18.16. I haven't had any kids so insertion was extremely painful (sharp pain) but only last seconds. What followed next was just cramping which lasted 3 days. I controlled it with ibuprofen. I have been on birth control for 11 years but the last year I would skip the sugar pill to prevent my period from coming. So I have yet to get a period. I don't expect I will. Sex doesn't hurt and partner claims he doesn't feel anything. I check myself whenever I take a shower and I haven't had any movement (string length always been the same). The only side effect I am gassy more than ever. But other than that no headaches, bleeding,cramps etc.
I got pregnant 6 months after I had my Mirena IUD put in. That alone should tell you not to get the Mirena. I discovered I was pregnant for two months when I went to the hospital. I went back to the hospital two days later, and they told me I was miscarrying. The mirena was a large part of that. My goal here was to prevent pregnancy.... not take the life of a child. If that isn't enough to steer you away, here are some other issues I have: -- constant bleeding, the first couple months it was light, but after 2 months of light bleeding it became regular heavy bleeding. I went to see my OBGYN about this twice, and after they gave me an internal ultrasound, they just scratched their heads and said hmm we don't know why. -- getting this put into your uterus is EXTREMELY PAINFUL. This cannot be said enough. It is the most painful thing I have gone through. -- There is constant pain and discomfort. The pain from mirena makes me wish I still just had period cramps once a month. The pain is more sharp than crampy. -- It decreased your sex drive. This part just sucks. -- Pain with sex. DO. NOT. GET. THE. MIRENA.
So I had it inserted on 25 Mar 16. The insertion was very easy. I felt a little pinch and mild cramping when it was being inserted, but it wasn't bad at all! I was actually surprised. Cramping lasted for the rest of the day and partially the next day. I spotted on and off for a few days but haven't spotted for about a week now. I broke out from the pill but with Mirena my face has cleared up quite a bit. I still get one or two here and there but nothing compared to the pill. I hope that I continue to have the same experience and that I don't start having crazy spotting. But overall, its been great! I don't have to worry about bc and it's easy!
I read a lot about this IUD before getting it done. People talked about getting numbing medication before getting it done and I was offered none of that. The doctor was working on getting it done when I started having extreme cramps. The cramps were so bad I was laying on the table crying. It was some of the worst pain I have ever felt in my life. The doctor said my cervix was closed and had to use dilators to get me open enough to insert it. Afterwards I had to lay on the table for a good 30 minutes sobbing because it hurt so bad. I was barely able to drive home from the doctors office. I ended up having to take off the work the rest of that day and the next (I work at a daycare) When I got home I had to take some painkillers and laid in bed the rest of the day. It was one of the worst experiences ever. I have only had it a week and feel a little better. I just hope the benefits outweigh the negative experience I had.
I recently just had mine taken out after 4 years. I just want to regulate my body again. It's weird, but I kinda miss having normal periods. With Mirena, I would just have light spotting, and it would only be once in a blue moon. I have had no side effects with this other than that. I recommend Mirena to someone not wanting to get pregnant for a few years, and doesn't want to remember a pill every single day.
I'm 22, single, no children. I was super excited about Mirena b/c of the all positive reviews. However, I guess I had to experience it first-hand in order to realize how terrible it is. The insertion process was uncomfortable (feels like the worst cramps ever). I've been bleeding continuously since I got it. Painful cramping in lower abdomen. Bloating. My metabolism is so slow now and I feel like I'm always stuffing my face w/ food.I've gained weight even though I live a healthy lifestyle and hit the gym 4-5 times a week. I'm starting to get bacne. No sex drive. I heard from other women that you sometimes bleed after intercourse and it might even be painful! I was told that your body might take up to 6-9 months to get adjusted to it. I'm not about to put my sex life on hold for that long, so I got it removed today after just one month. Unfortunately, Planned Parenthood denied me receiving any alternative birth control for a year because of the removal... but honestly, I'm just glad I'm done w/ mirena. Sticking to regular birth control pills from now on. Think twice ladies!
I had Mirena implanted and that was a very painful procedure. It was quick but painful. It took about a month for the bleeding to stop completely. Aside from the painful implantation I experienced a bunch of side effects. The most noted and bothersome was the puffiness of my face, hands and feet. I was constantly being asked by my coworkers and my family if I had been crying all night or was I tried because of the side effect of puffiness in my face. My eyes stood puffy the whole two months I had the device. I also experienced extreme fatigue, low sex drive, weight gain (10 lbs in two months) and bad headaches. I had it removed yesterday and I've already feel a world of difference. Still getting the headaches today and the fatigue. Puffiness has improved already but I'm still puffy. Looking forward to feeling like myself again in a few weeks.
Hi everyone!. I got the Mirena installed today. I was nervous at first but, it went by quick and easy. I did have a little pain. It was very minor. The installment was mins tops. I barely cramped afterwards. I don't feel a thing. I did take extra strength Tylenol 2hrs b4 I went for my visit. I hope this helps someone to calm their nerves
For me, this was a big mistake. It was recommended by my Dr and I was given a leaflet on what to expect and possible side effect. I had most of the side effects and more which were not listed. I was so scared by the way it made me feel. I felt so very down and upset all of the time and was in a huge amount of pain. I had to go and get it out on an emergency appointment. I lost so much blood while it was in and even more when it was removed - I am still suffering from blood loss, anaemia but at least I feel that the 'old me' is back. I certainly would not recommend the Mirena.
I got the Mirena IUD inserted May of 2015. The insertion was very painful which I was well aware of. At the time, I was 18 y/o, no kids and so my uterus is small which doesn't help the pain either. After it was over I felt some pain but not enough to not be able to continue my daily routine. My first time having sex with the Mirena I bled for 2 weeks straight after. I then realized my uterus was very sensitive and sex led up to bleeding. After awhile it stopped. The body does have to get used to it and it takes about 6 months. A year later I get cramps from time to time and that just indicated my period which is typically just spotting is about to come one. I have not had a heavy period in forever... just spotting. IUD is still in place, at the time the cramps can get pretty bad but when are cramps ever good? I am sexually active at the moment and Mirena is serving its purpose so far. It is a good idea to add another form of birth control such as condoms. My partner feels the strings sometimes but he says it doesn't bother him. I recommend Mirena, although it has its ups and downs it does help prevent pregnancy for 5 years. I have had no severe symptoms that would have me remove it
I will admit that it hurt extremely bad when my doctor inserted it. She had to dialate me a little but the process took about 10 minutes. I did get heavy cramping but it wasn't anything I couldn't handle or get rid of with some ibuprofen. I kept missing my pills so decided to put the mirena in. Best decision ever. Highly recommend.
Holy Painful! I went in today to have the Mirena placed. It was beyond painful, I've never experienced such pain before. My doctor wasn't able to get through my cervix, so we stopped. I sat up and then passed out. I have been bleeding for 6 hours now and still with extreme abdominal pain.
I highly recommend this for older women who have had a child.
I had the Mirena placed 6 weeks after my daughters birth. I didn't have any probelms with insertion or adjusting to it. My periods went away completely almost immediately. My hair started falling out shortly after insertion. For the first 9 months I chalked it up to post partum hair loss, which is totally normal. I'm now 18 months post partum and still losing massive amounts of hair. I've had so much thinning and loss I've got bald spots and my scalp is easily visible. I've just had the Mirena removed and can't wait to see some regrowth. I did have blood work done to check thyroid levels to make sure it wasn't something else, everything was normal -- except the Mirena.
Love the iud!! Best decision I have made. Slite discomfort on insertion but nothing to be a concern. Love it! Disregard all the negative reviews it us different for all women.
I never write reviews for anything but I thought I'd share my experience to give the next woman a second thought about getting the Mirena. I got the Mirena because I wanted a contraceptive that I wouldn't have to worry about taking everyday for 5 years. It sounded like a good idea.. unfortunately I did not have a good experience. The insertion was VERY UNCOMFORTABLE. Some would describe it as painful as well. Even though I took Tramadol before insertion I still felt everything! Pros: Insertion only lasted about 5 minutes, it was in fact very effective against pregnancy. CONS: severe nausea, extremely fatigued every day, continuous bleeding, yeast infection, abdominal pain, pain during intercourse, really bad mood swings. I got it removed.
I got the Mirena IUD because I thought it was a good idea. Unfortunately, my experience wasn't what I expected. First off the insertion was super uncomfortable! Gladly it only took about 5 minutes to put it in.. I bled continuously for a few wks.. the bleeding finally *slowed* down and I had an intercourse with my bf.. deep penetration was terribly painful.. (which sucked) I'm only 20 years old so I have a high sex drive and I wasn't too pleased about the continuous bleeding and abdominal pain during intercourse.. I also experienced major abdominal pains while working out which required an ultrasound and severe nausea.. To top everything off, I was SO ANGRY all the time! I'm a really bubbly person so that was odd. I was always snapping on my boyfriend. When I would yell, I would get even more pissed off because I wanted to yell louder than what I was yelling..not a day went by that I didn't get pissed off about something.. I didn't laugh anymore, talk anymore, I would just stay quiet around everyone competely annoyed.. Eventually I made an appt. to get it removed. That same day I felt a dramatic difference.. almost like a relief! I didn't get angry at anything that day! No more pai
I just had my third Mirena and have never had any problems. I got my first one at 35, and I've never had kids. With three insertions behind me, my experience has always been moderate pain during the procedure itself (a few fairly sharp cramps, but the whole thing, if done correctly, takes less than 5 minutes), followed by feeling crampy (for me, like when I have a heavy period) for 24 hours, and spotting for 2-3 days. Then for the rest of the five years no heavy periods, but irregular light spotting every 4-6 weeks that lasts for 2-3 days. For me, it's a fantastic trade-off for reliable birth control with minimal hormones. I had used Depo-Provera previously, which left me with massive weight gain and basically permanent PMS, so Mirena has been a fantastic alternative.
I got Mirena over a month ago and I am so happy I did. I actually tried to get an IUD in college at Planned Parenthood and it would not go in, even after taking dilation medicine. However, I hated being on an oral contraceptive so I wanted to give an IUD one last try. I went to a more experienced OB/GYN and had the IUD inserted during my period and after taking dilation meds. The insertion and 2-3 days after were PAINFUL, to say the least. My doctor said this was because I have never been pregnant/given birth and my uterus is slightly tilted. I got it inserted on a Monday and actually had to take the next day off of work because of the pain, so I'd recommend trying to get it put in on a Friday if possible, so you have the weekend to recover. I had harsh cramps for about 3 days, and after that they were more dull and intermittent. After a week or two they were mostly gone, but I still got random twinges or "crampy" days. Now it's over a month later and I could not be happier. I still will randomly get a cramp every now and then, but it's nothing I can't handle. My partner hasn't felt the string during sex, but I will say that certain deep-thrusting positions do hurt a bit more than
I thought IUDs were for women who have had babies. Come to find out I was able to get it at 16 and 0 kids! I love mirena! Its amazing dont have to worry about getting pregnant or forgetting pills. Everything has stayed the same for me my weight, same amount of acne literally everything. Definitely recommend!
I really regret the day I decided to have the Mirena. IT DOES CAUSE WEIGHT GAIN along with a multitude of other side effects which I could not tolerate. I had mine removed after months of hell and the bleeding with huge clots started almost instantly and lasted for over 2 weeks. I am still dealing with major side effects even after removal. Generally a very happy and upbeat person but since the Mirena, both during and after, I have been so down and very tearful every day. If this 'tiny' amount of hormone can cause all of this then I'm afraid they can keep it. Ladies, please do lots of research and ask lots of questions before having this fitted. I would not recommend this to anyone for fear of them going through what I have. It seemed like the answer to all my prayers but turned out to be one of the worst decisions I have ever made.
My experience with mirena has been very mixed. Insertion was the worst pain of my life ( I had an abortion when I was 18 and it felt just like that, also brought back mental hardship because the pain as so similar). Bled for 2 months straight afterwards, almost went to have it out. My doctor told me that was normal and it will stop soon, which it did. I have had it in for 2 years now, no more bleeding I haven't had a period since, have had some spotting every couple of months but nothing serious. I have lost 50 pound (found out my thyroid wasn't working starting taking medicine for that and dropped all that weight). And no acne...after experiencing all of that BAD at the start of getting the mirena in, I still wouldn't take it back. I love not having to worry about taking a pill everyday. ALTHOUGH...before mirena I had the Nuva Ring, my insurance didn't cover it anymore so I got mirena. Nuva Ring is WONDERFUL, put it in yourself, stays in for 3 weeks then take it out and have your period for the one week it's out( my periods only lasted 3 days) so I definetly recommend the mirena, but if you don't feel comfortable having something foreign in your body for 5 years I HIGHLY recommend
I got the Mirena in July 2015. I was 28 years old and did not want to have kids, so I thought the Mirena, which lasts 5 years, would be a good choice for my husband and I. Insertion was the worst pain I've felt in my life. I took Advil before my appointment as recommended by my doctor, but it was still awful. I was told that my period would slacken off to nothing over the next few months. Instead, I was on my period more often than not. It was so heavy for so long, I started worrying I was becoming anemic. The cramps were horrible- I have always had very bad cramps, but these were like nothing I've ever experienced. One night I lay in bed for hours with what felt like contractions. No pain meds would make it go away. My doctor suggested I give my body 6 months to adjust to the Mirena. By Dec./Jan., the cramps were better, except during my period, which was coming every 2.5 weeks and lasting nearly as long. But there were other things happening to my body. My anxiety was through the roof, and my stomach felt nauseous almost every day, especially after meals. I was having awful headaches, and I constantly felt fatigued. I'm normally an active person, so I was feeling like a los
I have had the Mirena IUD for almost 2 1/2 years. Insertion caused terrible cramps and lower back pain for roughly 2 weeks. I have gained 35 pounds while working out daily and eating extremely healthy. Its depressing. I have the worst case of back acne in the world. My back is covered from neck to butt cheeks. And systic acne on my chin. All of which I have never experienced before the IUD. Not even in high school. I don't feel beautiful at all. My kids want to go swimming and I dread putting on a swimsuit. The worst part, my sex drive is nonexistent. I had a very over active libido. Now, I have no desire what so ever to have sex. It's not good for a marriage. Period wise, I spot all the time. No full on period, just constant spotting. There is also an excessive amount of mucus. Gross, but true. Be prepared to go through a ton of panties, liners or pads. Also, you are advised not to use tampons with the IUD. Cramping and mood swings are horrendous. This is not worth the 1 benefit of preventing pregnancy.
I've had the Mirena IUD about 1 month now. I have not had any side effects since getting it. IT DOES NOT CAUSE WEIGHT GAIN! The only thing that i am kinda irritated by is the irregular spotting.Other than that it is working extremely great for me and my husband. He cant tell its there during sex. God Bless Ladies and the Best of Luck
I NEVER write reviews for anything, but thought I would put my Mirena experience out there because so many bad reviews made me almost cancel my appointment to have it inserted. I'm 31 years old and haven't been on birth control since the age of 16 because I hated the idea of having artificial hormones put in my body everyday. Ever since I started my period my first day would be incredibly heavy and I would have such bad cramps I could barely stand up. When I was in high school I would just not go to school that day; after that, I discovered that the only pain medicine that would actually work was Vicodin or Percocet so I would take that every month on the first day my period started. About 5 or 6 years ago I started getting very down about a week before my period. I tried everything to ease my PMS-- more exercise, diet changes, acupuncture, herbs, but nothing helped enough to make a noticeable difference. Seemingly the moment my period started my mood would lighten, i'd pop a couple pills and just get through the rest of the day. I never really minded having to take drugs to ease the pain, it was actually kind of a fun once-a-month pill party, but feeling shitty one week out of the
I just had my Mirena inserted today 3/14/2016. After reading many negative reviews I still agreed to continue with it and was very nervous. They set me up kind of like with the pap smear table but it had a sonogram machine next to it. The assistant had the sonogram going to monitor on screen that it's being placed properly by my OBGYN dr. He has at least 16 years of experience as well as this office puts in 17 mirenas to patients per day. They we're talking to me there was a plastic clamping thing and u could really not feel much at ALL. They didn't even put a numbing medicine. The doctor asked are you ready and im like okay but he said well he already done while we were talking. And I did not believe it. I had felt MILD cramping like a period for about 20 seconds shortly after it was in. But then the cramping stopped. I was able to walk out of there with no problems, and i cannot even feel it now. I don't feel nauseous and I have no other symptoms. Its been almost 3 weeks since the first day of my last period and they said it was effective immediately. Just to provide you folks piece of mind that there is hope that its not so bad, just make sure your doctor has lots of experience
I got Mirena 6 weeks after my second child was born in hopes for easy birth control. Insertion was painful, but nothing a little Ibuprofen wouldn't handle. I bled very light for 6 weeks straight after insertion. Finally my period came regularly it was extremely light but lasted at least 3 days longer than normal (7+days). That was nothing compared to the pain the IUD caused me 24-7, my husband felt it, even 9 months into having it he moved it causing extreme nausea, dizziness, back pain for 2 weeks until it moved back to place. Then add the severe PMS symptoms to the mixture, I was miserable. Had it removed 17 months after insertion and would not recommend to anyone. The pain and side effects out weight the benefits.
I had the Mirena IUD inserted 12/29/2015. I definitely experienced the side effects that my doctor told me I would but still would not change my choice. I had it inserted to stop my periods due to heavy flow. I had a normal the moth following insertion. The only change of that period was that I spotted for a few days prior to actually bleeding. Two weeks later I began to have spotting that continued for a full month. There was very little blood and a pad or tampon wasn't necessary although I used a light day tampon just in case. The amount of blood was so minimal that I could only see it when wiping after using restroom. For the past two weeks there has been nothing so I fell in to the category described by my doctor, that spotting could continue for 6-eight weeks after insertion. I will say the most annoying part of the precess had been when having sexy time with my man, the bleeding would increase leaving a mess most times. Very thankful that ended! Most review I have read seem as if women expected the periods to stop almost immediately after insertion. Patience is needed with the Mirena, that is for sure, but it will all be worth it in the end. Hang in there, ladies
I had my Mirena IUD inserted in November of 2015. It is now March 2016 and I have an appointment to get the device removed next week. I love the concept of IUDs, highly effective contraception that works without you needing to do anything beyond insertion and replacement every few years. However, my experience has been less than ideal. Throughout my use my body has changed and not in ways I'm excited about. My bacne has increased 10 fold, where before I might get a 2-3 pimples, I now have an uncountable amount on my upper back. I have gained weight and he way I carry weight has changed. My scalp has gotten increasingly oily and itchy and has been creating more and more dandruff monthly. I've had joint pain, nausea, and most importantly I don't feel like myself anymore. My mood and disposition have changed dramatically, becoming more aggressive and depressed. As I noticed these changes it took me a while to come to the conclusion that the IUD was playing a role. I have reached the point where I can't wait any longer to see if my body will balance out over time and simply need to let my hormones re-balance naturally. I am thinking about trying Paraguard instead, however the increased
I got the Mirena after having my little girl and i got it placed at the local health department in September of 2015. When i got it inserted i cramped but not for to long, they had me lay there for about 10 minutes after it was done making sure i didnt get sick or dizzy. I walked out perfectly fine but when i got home the real bad cramping and bleeding set in. I was doubled over in pain on the toilet i was bleeding so bad a pad or tampon wouldnt control it. But, after that night was over i woke up the next morning and i was fine mild cramping but nothing major. I've had it going on 6 months and i can feel it when i have sex but he cant, my strings were cut wayyy to short and my ob/gyn couldnt find them when i went in last so i got a appointment to talk to my ob/gyn friday about getting it removed or replaced with a new one. I still get cramps and pains and its getting annoying so hopefully nothing major is wrong. I would recommend this but id probably talk to my ob/gyn before i would go to the health department just make sure the strings arent cut to short and place correctly. If you dont feel some kind of pain when its inserted its probably not in right cause its supposed to hit y
I chose to get the Mirena because it is so low maintenance and lasts for 5 years. I am 18 years old, never had a child, and am on my way to college next year in a different city. I wanted something that I wouldn't have to think about but that would still get the job done. When I first decided to get the Mirena, I looked up reviews online and saw a lot of reviews saying that women passed out or that it was the worst pain of their life. I just went in and got my Mirena put in this morning, and I can't say that it didn't hurt at all, but it was nothing that wasn't bearable. My experience was actually very nice. There's a slight stretch when the speculum went in, but no pain. When my Gyno measured the length of my uterus, there was a deep cramping that definitely hurt but was over in a few seconds. Same with the actual insertion of the IUD. I have no comment on things such as expulsion, since I've had the Mirena now for less than an hour. But for insertion I would recommend deep breathing, fixating on one spot, and just trying to relax as much as possible. Do those things and I don't think that there's anything to worry about! Any pain is well worth the 5 years of birth control. Also,
I had the Mirena fitted due to heavy periods. It wasn't too painful to have inserted but certainly not pleasant! I had the usual cramps and spotting which I expected. What I didn't expect was the pain the following week which had me doubled over in agony. My mood was so low - Felt as though I could have done something really stupid it was so bad. I could feel everything increasingly getting worse in terms of pain and mood and ended up crying uncontrollably every day which is so not me! Can't believe this tiny contraption which apparently only releases a tiny amount of hormone could cause so many problems and make me feel so ill. I had it removed and I bled heavily for 2 weeks then took a normal period. I lost so much blood I am borderline anaemic now with poor ferritin levels so I am left feeling worse than when I started! Seriously would NEVER recommend this to anyone - it can really mess up your life!
First off let me tell you that I was TERRIFIED of getting Mirena. I postponed it for months. I have polycystic ovarian syndrome and I use birth control for heavy periods. I am 20 with no babies. Finally I went back to my doctor and asked if I could just go back on the pill. He told me that since the previous one gave me high blood pressure it was no longer an option. I was on my period that had lasted 4 weeks. I took 800mg of ibuprofen the night before and an hour before my appointment. I expected the worst. To my surprise it felt like a strong period cramp and that was it. My period stopped the next day, I have had no bleeding, very mild cramping on and off, and my sex drive has gone up. I highly recommend this! It's really Great.
I had a Mirena placed in December of 2014. I was uncomfortable but not terrible. About two weeks later I had terrible lower back pain, cramping, and could no longer feel my strings so I went to an urgent care centre. There I had an X-ray and ultrasound and was told to follow up with my GP the following week. At my follow up appointment she gave me an exam and said I had nothing to worry about, the strings were just too short and to continue as usual. I had no additional pain after that but felt off for months before discovering I was pregnant in February. Ironically the date of conception was the same week I was checked by the GP!
I would never recommend the mirena to any woman. I first got my mirena inserted 6 months ago. things have gone down hill ever since. Of course you are going to cramp a little after insertion and that wasn't too bad. But still 6 months later i am having terrible period like cramps everyday and to go along with it i am bleeding. I have only not been on my period for a week in the entire 6 months. A few weeks after i got it i also started to notice a weird smell. I am very self conscious about this too. I always make sure i clean myself very well and eat a good diet. I don't feel pretty when i'm with my boyfriend anymore and that's the worst feeling. I can't wait to have the mirena removed as soon as possible. But the thing they don't tell you when you get the mirena inserted is that insurance doesn't cover getting it taken out. So as soon as i scrounge together $200 that i don't have.
I hated the Mirena. I had it inserted in August of 2015, and took it out February of 2016. While on the Mirena, I had constant bloating and pain. I also gained 40 pounds. (I was on a low carb diet and going to the gym every other day) My acne came back in full force and became very cystic. My fiance could feel it almost every time we had sex, and it made sex very painful. Definitely would not recommend! Very convenient but otherwise wasn't worth it. It also caused me to get a bacterial infection, which is common with the IUD.
I haven't had the mirena long at all. I actually just got it put in, so I'll update in a month from now. The insertion was awful! And I took a muscle relaxer that was perscribed to me for spasms. Anyways, I've never had kids, and I'm too young And broke to even be thinking about kids so I decided to do an iud. When I got into the doctors office, my doctor tried to measure the size of my uterus without dilation first and my cervix would not dilate; she used clamps to manually dilate my cervix. The clamps hurts so much! They actually made my cervix bleed from tearing it alittle. It was some of the worst internal cramping I've ever had as well. I couldn't even sit up from laying down for like 10 mins. The rest of the day was horrible cramping and I felt pretty weak. The next day I woke up and didn't really have much cramping at all. My bleeding had stopped and I've been fine since I got it put in. I've had a bit of bloating but that was it.
Reasons other than BC, it mainly was due to my out of control periods. Severe depression, clotting, extremely heavy, increasing in frequency. My hormones were so bizarre I would become suicidal. My Gyno doctor recommend Mirena which released progesterone only due to my smoking. It was very painful on insertion but the procedure was fast. Cramping mild to moderate for a week. Spotted to light bleeding for 3 months to no periods. Occasionally I spot but overall I'm blessed for Mirena! I've gained weight but I'm not one to exercise or eat healthy! Overall I'm satisfied
I had my mirena in place for 5 years. After I had my son I was 19 and knew I was in no situation to have another child in the near future. I tried the pill for a few months but due to my irregular work schedule could not remember to take it. My doctor talked to me about the IUD and I decided to give it a chance. It was uncomfortable when it was placed. The first few months I spotted inbetween periods. After that I would have a period every few months. The last two years I had no periods or spotting. It was so nice to not stress about taking a pill. My partner never felt the device either:) I took it out to get pregnant in the next few months. I will definitely get another one after my next child.
I had the Mirena placed about 3 years ago. It was extremely painful when it was placed. I tried to "get used to it" but have had progressively worse side effects. My husband could feel the "string" (more like a wire) and we were told to just have him sweep it out the way with a finger. (Not romantic or comfortable) My side effects finally forced me to get the device removed after three visits to the doctors office (took four months) I had no sex drive, gained 50 lbs, had menstrual cramps all month, felt bloated and had pelvic pain, and swelling in my feet. No wonder it is effective in preventing pregnancy!
I'm 22 and have not had children. The Mirena is the first form of birth control I've ever used. I've had my IUD in for 1.5 years. I was pretty nervous about getting an IUD, but I have a difficult time relaxing during procedures anyways. My husband is a nurse and both he and other experienced female nurses highly recommended the IUD. The procedure was quick, although painful. I took two Aleve before the appointment and was not given any other medication. I also was not on my period when having the procedure; being on your period during it can apparently help because your cervix is naturally more dilated. My doctor manually dilated me, which caused cramping, and after the Mirena was in I had to lie down for about half an hour because of intense cramping. I also vomited. I would say that the pain, at its worst point, was a 6 or 7 out of 10. After about 30 minutes, the cramping stopped fairly suddenly and I felt a little weak, but otherwise totally fine. There was no bleeding during or after, only cramping (like I said, I have difficulty relaxing my body). Later that day I began my period, according to my regular schedule. It's possible some of the cramping was due to my cycle
I had mirena put in as an alternative option to taking the pill every day. For me personally, it was not a positive experience. I've never had kids- and I don't plan on having them. The insertion was extremely painful to the point I vowed never to give birth even if I decided to have kids (and my pain tolerance is usually pretty high). But after a year of having this IUD, I experience longer, heavier periods. My periods went from lasting 3-5 days on the pill, to lasting 10-14 days every month. Every. Single. Month. After sex I would bleed- and not just a little bit after sex, we're talking "who just murdered someone on the sheets" amout of blood at least 2/3 times we had sex. This IUD killed my sex life. My doctor tried every solution she could think of- from vaginal sepositories to progestin pills every night. I took 200 mg progestin pills every night for 11 months until I finally decided it was enough and I am getting it removed tomorrow. The IUD may be a wonderful thing for some people- but be aware that if you're like me, you may experience the hell that is the monthly visitor for way longer than you would ever want to.
I had Mirena put it as soon as I had my baby. It did hurt a lot after They inserted it but after the pain had went away ,I only spotted every month. The first 3years were great I loved it. It was the last 2 years where I would have extreme pain on my right side when I was suppose to start my period. The pain felt like sharp stabbing throbbing pains n it was so bad where I couldn't even walk. I dreaded having my Period every month bc I was scared of the pain awaiting for me. It was Terrible! Reconsider this contraceptive!
After reading reviews I was actually super afraid of getting mirena in. I have heard horror stories but my doctor assured me I would be fine. She prescribed me medicine to soften my cervix that was taken the night before my insertion. I also took 800mg of ibuprofen before. The insertion took maybe 4 minutes total. It was uncomfortable and there was only 2 seconds of terrible pain that made me gasp but it was over quickly. Immediately after it was inserted I started cramping, and my stomach felt bloated and tight. The night of insertion I slept with a heating pad and ibuprofen and that next morning I just had mild cramps, that felt like period cramps. I spotted the first 3 days after getting mirena but it was super light (panty liner) and then it stopped. I did not break out at all after mirena. My boobs are starting to hurt about a week after insertion but that's it. No period, no spotting, no more cramping. I am pleased and I reccomend this to anyone! I have never had kids and I am 20 so it's safe for people who haven't had kids too!
I was advised to use Mirena at the end of 2013 as I was pre menopausal, experiencing extremely heavy periods which would last for weeks. The bleeding was so profuse I would have to sit on the toilet every 20 minutes due to exssesive bleeding that no sanitary product could support. Once on Mirena my periods stopped and in a 2 year period I only menstruated twice, being menopausal I knew having the IUS coped with my excessive menstrual bleeding. However using Mirena came with a cost. In the time using this product I gained unaccountable excessive weight, even though my diet was healthy and I had a healthy life style. With the weight gain came the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. Apparently my pancreas was over working itself to cope with the weight gain! Today I had my Mirena removed and I'm working hard to lose the weight I gained from this product. I call Mirena a product because that's what it is. It may save $$ for the medical profession and earn $$ for pharmaceutical companies but unfortunately it comes at a health cost of the consumer....women.
I love this IUD. A lot of people said my husband would feel the strings. He said he can't feel them. We have an amazing sex life. I have not lost my sex drive. This is a all around great birth control.
I had the Mirena inserted after experiencing amid tem miscarriage. I had it put it when I was 43. initially I loved it as I had extremely heavy periods all my life and I did not have a period to mention with the exception of very light spotting. I started to have a situation with extreme fatigue and depression which is WAY out of the ordinary for me. Generally I feel like a human dynamo and have so much interest in my friends, associates and family. I was getting sick all the time which is also unusual. I needed to sleep 8-10 hrs/day and this is very unusual! My appetite changed. not hungry, forgetting meals. This is fine. I started having insomnia and feeling anxious. These are all very different symptoms, I had bronchitis 4 x's, strep 2x's in a few months. I started to feel like I was going downhill fast. All of the above, very unusual. For years, I have been working 80-100 hrs per week and am rarely ll. never been depressed and I felt SOMETHING was wrong! I couldn't figure it out and had multiple tests done that all said I was perfectly healthy. That made me feel crazy! I finally thought, What if this has to do with the Mirena?" It was time coincident with the
I've had the Mirena now for 2 years after I was diagnosed with endometriosis. During the first 2 months I was constantly on my period and had some period pains. Thereafter the bleeding stopped completely and I haven't had my period come back ever again. I am also still endometriosis free which is a massive plus.
I found the Mirena to be awful, a really bad decision as far as I am concerned. I felt awful for the entire (short) time I had it in. I am 45 so maybe that's a factor. I had lots of pain, bleeding and serious emotional changes leaving with no alternative but to have it removed. I bled heavily and constantly for 2 weeks following removal resulting in extremely low iron and ferritin levels. I cannot recommend this product based on my own terrible experience but everyone is different. You should just be aware of the potential side effects and the aftermath of removal - I wasn't prepared for just how traumatising the entire process is and wish I had never had it in.
I am currently 6 weeks into my second mirena. I LOVED it my first time around and decided to have a new one placed after 5 years. This time around I am having more of the side effects than I did before. I am still bleeding and I am cramping for the first time in my life. The first IUD I had was easy. No cramping, one week of spotting after insertion, and then I was done with periods for the most part. I loved my first experience so much that I am pushing through this initial adjustment period to get to the wonderful outcome I had before. I think that there are many many factors that lead to the side effects we have. It is hit and miss, bit it is also comforting to know I can pull it out if I need to or want to. As of right now, the side effects are not severe enough for me to consider having it removed.
I LOVE the Mirena! After reading every horror story I could find online I was terrified for my appointment. I took ibuprofen before I arrived and was given a local anesthetic prior to insertion. My doctor was amazing, which is I think why it went so well! It was uncomfortable, but not painful. The procedure was quick and after they let me relax a little before standing and gave me some orange juice and a cookie. I went back for my checkup and things looked great. That was about a year ago now. Since then I had a little over a week of spotting initially after getting it but since then haven't had any so far. I have had a few cramps every so often, but nothing like I used to get with my periods. I wouldn't want anything else and am overjoyed with my decision to get the Mirena! It's different for everyone but if things continue I will definitely be getting another when my 5 years are up!
I had the Mirena IUD put in for birth control. For the first 6 months I had bleeding, which was a dampener on my sex life. I broke out with acne which lasted for about 1 year. I gained 30kgs and could not shift it. Didn't effect my periods at all. Still had regular painful periods and now I had pain when I was ovulating. It also gave my cysts on my overias which would burst and cause lots of pain. I had terrible mood swings for the first 3 months. Despite all of this I left it in as I felt it was the only contraception available to me. Two and a half years after getting the Mirena I was at work and had excruciating pain in my side. I was rushed to hospital and discovered that I had an ectopic pregnancy. I was treated with Methotrexate and luckily avoided surgery. I talked to my Gynocoligist and said there was no reason to take the IUD out and that an ectopic pregnancy wouldn't happen again and assured me that my symptoms had nothing to do with the Mirena. Because I really couldn't get pregnant at this time in my life I reluctantly kept the Mirena in. Then 4 years after insertion I'm rushed to hospital again with another ectopic pregnancy. I got a different Gynecologist this time an
I got the mirena implant 3 months ago, my periods are starting to become regular and a lot lighter (I used to have extremely heavy periods) My sex drive has gone through the roof and as I am single this is EXTREMELY agitating, but otherwise I would recommend
I only had the insertion this morning but wanted to share my positive experience with that. After, regrettably, reading a lot of reviews online I was so nervous going into my appointment. The procedure was such a breeze! There was a lot of pressure at first and then a sharp pinch, but all that only lasted 2 minutes at the most. When it was over I had very mild cramping that disappeared shortly after. Later in the afternoon, when the advil started wearing off, I had slightly heavier cramping. Overall it was a really positive experience for me and I hope this brings some comfort to anyone considering the option.
The mirena IUD was extremely painful upon insertion. after about three months i experiences mood swings and sever ance which i have never had previously or have a history of. I told my doctor but she insisted it would pass. After an additional six month not only was my skin getting worse but i started to gain weight. I went back to my doctor to have it removed.. its been six months since i had it removed and the ance disappeared within three months... now i am in the process of losing the 17lbs i gained!
I put on 30 lbs over the course of two years with Mirena, had acne outbreaks, and suffered through depression. I had it removed five weeks ago, and since doing so, have seen all of the issues i originally tied to Mirena virtually disappear. I've also lost twenty pounds. This is a great form of birth control. It's convenient and an easy procedure. Just do your research and HEED THE SIDE EFFECT warnings. They're called warnings for a reason, because they could happen to you.
Ladies Ladies ladies. . . Before I get started I want to say Everyone body is different && most certainly reacts different to different treatments. ( I wasn't so Lucky] !! I originally got the Iud mirena To stop my heavy bleeding Due to the cyts On my ovaries.. which caused heavy bleeding non stop- Even to the point I lost so much blood I was hospitalized Being transplanted blood. (that really sucked ) .. I am 21 years old I have one child.. my Doctor however said the Mirena was going to stop the bleeding and shrink my cyst all at the same time. #fact it happened.. I read Up on reviews I'm not the one to believe everything I will definitely Try things out myself so I did... I had Moods swings that was out of this world, Crying for no reason, sex Drive Went down, the Dui was So uncomfortable (Of course she stated you have to get use to it for 6 Months) that did not happen.. I was Mad for no reason, I looked at myself Like I was in disgust, never had this happend..I would get very uncomfortable Cramps every day out the Month, it made sez very uncomfortable, memory loss, and weight Gain for sure.. Since the iud is more on the pricey side I'm sure that's why she Recommend that
I have the Mirena since Jan 2014, it was the 3rd mirena I have inserted. Looking back all 3 was not in longer than 2.5 yrs. The insert was very painfull as my servix is facing down, that cause the pain! When it is in, no periods which is awesome but after 2 years I start feeling discomfort, lower backpain, bloatingness and a lot of water retention! I struggle to loose weight. I removed it today after visiting a dr who was honest enough to tell me that because of the hormones the side effects I mentioned start after 2 years. The product can last for 5 years but with the side-effects little patients goes for 5 yrs. I will not recommend it! (Yes the no periods is awesome, but side-effects not worthwhile. I gave it a fair shot...3 times and now its finish for me... I will go for normal coper loop, but this 'releasing hormones in uteris' is not working for me!!! Good luck with your decision...
I would just like to write to all the women out there scared to get Mirena. I was pretty nervous after reading all of the stuff online. I prepared myself to feel a lot of pain and discomfort. Pleasantly, the insertion was SO easy. I experienced some mild cramping, more so pressure during the procedure and for 5 minutes after. Nothing excruciating, I have honestly had stomach aches worse than it felt. And the best part? No babies for 5 years! I hope that this review helps someone who is nervous and weary to get Mirena due to pain, because I know I was. Take 800mg of Ibuprofen an hour before and every 8 hours after for up to 3 days and it is a breeze. You can do it!
I have had mirena for almost a year now and the past 2 months under stress I have had my period. I have read some horror stories about it moving out side your uterus. My boyfriend has felt it during intercourse but hasn't recently. I would definitely recommend this but make sure you get it checked regularly!
Don't listen to all the scary reviews. I am a 20yr old who has never had kids, and it really wasn't that bad. They gave me lorazipam and a cervix softener which helped. If your doc doesn't prescribe you these, ask for them! The Lora Joan really helped the process go quickly because you unconsciously clench your muscles when you are in pain which makes it that much harder for them to insert it quickly. Not to say that it wasn't painful, it felt like a really strong cramp when they measure your uterus and put the IUD in but after that just go home and take a nap and its fine. I've had it a week now and its already treating my heavy periods. So overall yes it will hurt, but it is very brief and worth the 5 years of protection (it is literally the most effective birth control) and the likelyhood of my period going away altogether. Oh, and don't listen to the reviews saying they gained weight and got acne or any of that crap. It's basicly impossible because less than 1% of the prgestin even gets into your blood stream, it's all localized in the uterus so you will not have any of those side effects that are really common in birth control pills or shots.
This was the worst decision regarding my body and health I have ever made. I suffered horrific joint pain to the point of not being able to walk. After three days of ankle, knee and hip pain along with feeling bruised on my forearm and a sty in my eye, I went to an urgent care clinic. I had to get two shots of steroids and pain killers and continued taking the steroids orally for a week. A day after finishing the pills the pain returned. This time I ran to my OB to get it taken out. He was hesitant but I insisted I could not keep it in for a second longer. The weight gain and acne were the least of my issues with this disaster of a contraption. No-one should have to go through this type of trial and error to see if it works for them. More research and a better device is needed.
My 5 years is up, and the Mirena IUD was 100% worth it to me! Like I said, I'm due to get mine removed since I've had it in for 5 years. During those years I only got a period twice when I was extremely stressed out. The period was short each time which I loved because I before the iud I would bleed for 8 or 9 days. The IUD had hormones, so I experienced zero cramping, moodiness, and no periods. It was lovely to not ever worry about ruining sheets, panties, jeans etc. I am considering a replacement, just need to work out the insurance part. When I was insured, it covered the entire cost of the iud. I do believe most insurances won't cover the cost to have it removed. Anyway, the absolute only down fall is that my boyfriend can feel it during sex SOMETIMES and he says it feels like a dull needle bit it's tolerable.
I got the Mirena as a form of contraception and also to stop uncontrollable bleeding. I am not allowed to use the pill as I suffer severe migrane. Using the single hormone pill and then the depo for a following year resulted in CONSTANT bleeding for the whole year. Despite the painful procedure and following few weeks of excruciating pain after insertion, I had not a single period until February (I got inserted in October). Although the initial pain was so intolerable for many weeks, I am so glad that I stuck it out because it has been the best option for me. I also used to suffer from acne which is starting to clear. I usually have a very high pain tolerance and can't believe something so small caused SO much pain!!!!!! Painful but worth it
I was metabolizing the pill too well (great, healthy liver function will do that) and so I opted for a better form of birth control and painful period control. Mirena was recommended by a friend. One painful day at insertion, two weeks of cramps, and five glorious years of no cramps, no periods, and occasional spotting. I used the mirena for the entire five years (age 30 to 35) and had it removed at the end of its life, removed it and two weeks later had a completely regular period. Two weeks after that I had a new one installed (sounds like car parts, but yeah, it's that easy). The second mirena is going strong, I'm 38 and my periods (spotting actually) are getting closer together, so no I'm probably entering perimenopause soon. I'm not moody, no cramps, no problems. This felt like the best decision I could make and take control of my body. I run things, NOT my period.
I do no recommend the mirena. The insertion process was one of the most painful things I have experienced. I cramp on and off all the time. I have a period randomly every month(usually for 2weeks). I am going tomorrow to get it removed. It's been 8 months and I can't take it any longer. I would rather go without and practice save sex than have all the horrible side effects
Placement was briefly painful for two minutes. Intermittent light spotting and cramping for about 6 weeks after. I've had it for a year now- no periods or cramping. No weight gain, acne, or moodiness. I can't recommend the mirena enough.
I had Mirena inserted 9 months ago, and it has been the worst experience. This IUD will exacerbate stress, and I have periods for 10+ days every month! I also noticed others were mentioning pain during intercourse and lack of libido: Totally!!!!!!! It is awful! I have no desire or energy, and when we do, I have pain in my lower abdomen in certain positions. As for acne, it has increased! I haven't experienced any issues with weight, although I haven't been actively trying to lose, and I have a fast metabolism. I have spoken to others who are taking it, and 1/8 people I spoken to kept it in after a year. They also mentioned panic attacks, severe depression, and lack of energy... "mood changes." The procedure was painful and I did bleed for 6 weeks after insertion - I've heard others stopped bleeding after a couple weeks. I wouldn't recommend this drug. read the reviews - and review the questions asked to generate the drugs rating...!!
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to tell you my insertion process of Mirena. I got it about 2 weeks ago while on my period. IT SUCKED. The dilation of the cervix was like no pain I ever felt -- it only lasted about 6 seconds but it was the worst wave of cramps I ever felt. Childbirth must suck because the dilation is much more extreme and longer in duration. Lol. But my boyfriend was there as support which mentally helped. Taking 3 ibuprofen the night before and 2 the morning of my appointment helped a great deal too. Having a support or S.O. is highly recommended, especially if you have a low pain tolerance like me. I felt weird and exhausted afterward,but overall I now feel better. I got over the weird realization that SOMETHING FOREIGN IS INSIDE ME and it won't bust out if you laugh too hard LOL. I am so outrageous -- I hope this helps anyone cooky like me :)) also, my spotting is driving me crazy, it looks like brownie batter and blood-ew right?! Ugh. I miss my ~normal fluid~ can anyone testify it returning?!! Anyway, cramping the day after was horrible, and off and on I get mild cramping as if on my period.....I had horrible depressing periods where I was suicidal and hating li
So I'm going to share my review of mirena. I had it implanted October of 2014, and removed today 1/29/2015 because I'm trying to conceive. The insertion was not painful and throughout my time using it I've experience some weight gain(15lbs), very little acne, and cramps around the time that I would be menstruating. I didn't have a normal cycle but I did have unpredictable spotting(lots of panty liners). I would recommend this form of birth control above both the pills and shot. Removal was easy, took less than a minute. It hadn't mover or implanted in anything. I have a very active/rough sex life with no problem. I'm hoping to become pregnant within a month : )
Mirena fitted for heavy periods. Please, please ladies do your, thorough, research prior to having the Mirena in. I only had advice from my Doctor and decided to have it. I have had most of the side effects detailed on the literature and even some other ones! I felt so low and awful that I had to go and have it taken out. I bled very heavily for 9 days following removal and am totally wiped out with it and hormonally all over the place. I guess everyone is different but under no circumstances would I recommend the Mirena - it seriously messes up your system. I will put up with the heavy periods!
I normally never review these things but I was so scared to get Mirena after all the negative reviews, and so far , after having it a month, I highly recommend . I took an advil before insertion and was on the end of my period which I'm sure helped but I had never given birth or even had sex for that matter when i got it placed and it hurt no more than 6 on a scale to 10. It was more uncomfortable than painful. Since than i have had spotting which I'm hoping goes away soon but seriously the most convenient birth control option (besides the spotting which should hopefully end soon). Also havent experienced any acne or weight gain from it which is a definite plus!
I wanted to share my positive experience with Mirena since there are a lot of negative reviews. All the negative reviews almost scared me off from trying it for myself. All women are different though and I figured more people who had problems would get online and complain than woman who had positive results. I am in my 40's, have 1 child and have a really bad problem with extremely heavy flooding menstrual periods. It had gotten so bad I was flooding thru every 2 hrs and that was affecting my daily life during that week. I had to do something so I went for it. Insertion was painful but over quickly. I had mild cramping that day and spotting for about a week. After that I had some discharge for several more weeks that I only noticed when I used the bathroom and then it stopped. I have had 2 periods now after insertion and they have been wonderful. I went from flooding to not even needing to wear or use anything! I have not had any side effects or problems. I am so happy that I did not let the negative reviews scare me off! Good luck to all the ladies who give it a try! Hope your experience is as positive as mine has been!
Possibly one of the worst decisions I have ever made. Had it removed to try and rebalance my system. Horrible side effects, blood loss and mood swings. BEWARE of this product - please do your research before considering this.
I'm 27 with no kids. I do not want kids and never have. I wanted something long term that was more reliable than the pill and wouldn't mess with me in the way the shot does. I've had Mirena for several months now. At first the cramping was odd and painful, nothing I couldn't handle, it would happen sporadically and would subside after a few minutes. A few months into it, its pretty much gone. No periods and minimal spotting. It was literally, for me "stick it and forget it" I'm very happy with it. No weight gain, no acne, no mood swings. I'm still my regular self. I have actually been losing weight in preparation for spring break lol so it hasn't hindered me in that respect. As for the insertion: I was really scared, I've heard a lot of horror stories. My OB gave me something for nerves. Honestly it just felt like a deep cramp. I didn't feel the pinch. but its different for everyone, but your a lot tougher than what you think. was it worth it? yes! I've heard many bad reviews, but my older sister was successful with it so I gave it a go and I'm glad I did. I told my OB I would give it 6 months and if I wasn't adjusting to it I would need her to yank it out lol
I had the mirena iud for 1 yr and 3 months. Using it for birth control. It was the most HORRIBLE experience EVER!! I continously had period, that was fine. Migraines (all the time), back problems (worse than my pregnancy back pain, i couldn't stand no more than 20 minutes without my back tensing up, feeling numbness in my left leg, and inflammed my eczema so bad to the point where it started to look like psoriasis. I went and had it removed and ended having outpatient surgery because the string coiled up in my uterus, my body feels so good and refreshed, i DO not recommend this thing to anyone. I wish i would have read the reviews before i got this implanted.
I received mirena about a month after giving birth to my only son. I discussed different options I had with a nurse who assisted in my labor. She was very kind and told me a lot of options and explained how she was on mirena and loved it. So, I decided to give it a try. For me, insertion was not uncomfortable. I felt no sharpness or cramps that I had been warned of, which was fantastic. However, I did have some very heavy bleeding and a period that I would say lasted for roughly 6 months. For a couple of days after insertion, my "lady bits" were a little sore but it eventually subsided. It's been two and a half years after insertion and I have virtually no period, just the occasional spotting. Which is fantastic. Aside from the fact that I can't pen point when it will happen. Regardless, it isn't so bad that it's really an issue at all. I'd be willing to get another after this one is removed and I recommend it to friends.
Today I had my Mirena inserted first thing this morning. I was originally scheduled next week during my period but I had a conflict and my NP agreed to do it sooner. Knowing it would be more painful then being on my period. This is my second Mirena. It is a painful insertion, mostly feelings of pinching, sharpness, and extreme cramping right after. I usually get lightheaded and diaphoretic after insertion. I usually lay in the room for about 15 minutes while the cramping subsides. I have only had one child 16 years ago. After about 20 minutes I am feeling better with mild cramping and I was able to return to work. I work in an operating room, and tolerated it fine. I am a little tired today and had some period like bleed for most the day. This evening it's nearly non-existent. I recommend 800mg ibuprofen 45 minutes prior and re-dose 6 hours later. I had such a great experience with the Mirena the first go around, why wouldn't I do it again? 5 years without a period or any other side effects. All our bodies are so different some women do better with estrogen type birth control. This is the progesterone type birth control and works best with my hormones. I highly recommend it! H
I was 22 and had never been pregnant when I had mirena placed. Before I had mirena my periods were extremely light and short. I was only looking for long term birth control. After I had mirena placed my period became extremely uncomfortable with excessive cramping. I even spoke to my doctor about having it removed. After doing extensive research I decided to tolerate the discomfort and see if it would improve over time. After the first 8 months my periods became lighter. After a year it was gone all together, with the exception of occasional spotting. It has now been three years and I plan on having this mirena replaced with a new one at the five year mark.
I just received the Mirena IUD about 4 hours ago. I felt the need to write this review and share my very positive experience. After reading many, many bad reviews, I was terrified to get the IUD, but it was one of my only options as I am recently unable to tolerate estrogen in contraceptives. I am 24 and have never had children. I consider myself to be susceptible to pain (I'm a bit of a wimp!) After expressing my concerns to my doctor, she scheduled my appointment on the third day of my period, she prescribed me Misoprostol, which is a pill inserted vaginally to soften the cervix, and Xanax to help with my anxiety surrounding the procedure. She also recommended that I take 800mg of ibuprofen 30 minutes prior to insertion. The insertion was uncomfortable, but not painful. It felt like a pinch and cramping. The entire procedure was done within two minutes. I have been experiencing slight cramping, off and on since the insertion. I understand that pain is different for everyone; but as someone who still cries like a baby while getting a flu shot, I can tell you that the implantation is completely tolerable! Don't be afraid to express your concerns to your doctor and discuss a
I got my Mirena put in 2 months after giving birth to my third child (about two weeks ago). The procedure was quick and easy. I had extremely faint cramps with it and the "pinch" they warn you about was barely anything. I nurse my son so I have not gotten a period since prior to being pregnant. The procedure did make me bleed for about a week but it was light. I was very nervous of getting it because of the reviews on here but now I'm glad I did. Best decision ever.
This is my third day to have Mirena (first time) and I wanted to leave a positive review. I read all of the forums as to why I shouldn't get Mirena and discussed it thoroughly with my Dr. before deciding to get it placed. I chose a dr with a lot of experience in placing the Mirena. I have had 2 C-sections, no vaginal births and have a reversed uterus. All this aside, I still wanted Mirena because I experience heavy and infrequent periods. I had it placed at 3 pm and by 7 that night I was out enjoying a concert. There was more pain with insertion than expected but that subsided within an hour. I did go home and take it easy for a short amount of time. Day 3 and the spotting is completely subsided and I still have zero pain. Daily activity returned to normal within a few hours. Highly recommend Mirena so far!
Had Mirena in a week ago and been climbing the walls since with pain, discomfort, shivers, cramps and numbness in mouth. Had it put in for heavy periods - having it removed tomorrow. Mood swings are awful. So, back to the drawing board I guess but certainly can't take much more of this!
I had Mirena put in 2 days ago. I had no pain at all when they put it in. Very mild cramping for literally a few seconds and that was it. So far the only side effects i have are spotting. Hopefully it goes away soon. I have tried two different types of pills, and the Nuva Ring and had terrible experiences with all three. I would recommend Mirena to anyone and everyone!
I have had Mirena for over a year. I got it after I had my second child as a form of birth control. The first few months were not pleasant. I bled for a month straight. It was very heavy sometimes and then very mild other times. My OB said the same thing happened to her when she got her first one put in (she is on her third one). After that, my period was pretty spotty for a few months. I would have two periods some months and only one others. Now, I very rarely get an actual period. It is mainly just spotting here and there. In the past three months, I have got one period and it only lasted four days and was never heavy. I do not get cramps like I used to and I also like that I do not have to think about it. Besides the first few months with it, I would say it is a great method of birth control, especially for someone with a very busy lifestyle.
I am 29. I have 3 kids. I got Mirena after my third baby 2 months postpartum. It's been 6 months total now with it in. I have always had a heavy, irregular period with horrible cramps. Insertion: The procedure was fairly quick. There's a "pinch" that is definitely more than just a pinch. I immediately started cramping during that. I felt fine when it was done. Then got dizzy and light headed while driving home. I had cramps for a couple days. Side Effects: I had a light period for about 6 weeks once I got it implated. No cramps. Then my period went away. I've had slight cramping on and off for a few days a month, but no period up until 3 weeks ago. And it lasted for 20 days. I've noticed myself become extremely tired, unhappy, and have gained a lot of weight. I was 123 lbs when I went for my 6 week postpartum check up. I gained 10 lbs in 6 weeks after my mirena was inserted. I am now up to 147 lbs. Mind you, I have always bounced back from my previous pregnancies and maintained a weight around 128. It's nice because 1.) you don't get a period often, if at all, 2.) you don't have to remember to take a pill. Other than that though, I would not recommend this to anyone. The
Had Mirena inserted 5 days ago. Insertion was not pleasant but manageable - just a weird pain like an elastic band being snapped inside! I am giving this a go due to extremely heavy periods and low ferritin levels due to this. I had some cramps and spotting which is to be expected I guess. I am feeling quite fluey today - my head is hot but hands and feet are freezing and I'm feeling 'spaced out'. Have been getting very upset and crying a lot too. Not sure if I can put up with this long term. I really hope it all calms down soon or I will need to go back and get it out. Really hoping for improvement soon.
I just got my mirena put in today. The only pain I felt was when my doctor pinch me a little while inserting the duck lips and I had a little bit of cramping for a couple of hour afterwards . Motrin seems to have worked but I heard good things like no more periods after 3-6 months, no more cramping and it only has a 4% of you getting pregnant and plus it last for 5yrs. So I would recommend it to any and everyone.
My experience: I have always had terrible and heavy periods, horrible cramps leading to missing 1-2 days of work every other month or so, weak, sometimes passing out, etc. They lasted typically 5-7 days with heavy flow (3-4 pads per day) and basically screwed up my life every single month, it was not endo. I read a lot about my options and chose Mirena. Insertion was terrible but I also had complications--I apparently have a steeply bent and narrow uterus which we were unaware of so after initial attempts at insertion they sent me for some scans, figured out the problem, and I went back. I took naproxen for 2 days leading up to the procedure both times. It was INCREDIBLY painful, both the first and second attempt, I was nauseous and nearly passed out the first time, started feeling that way the second time as well, and asked for the painkiller injection my doctor offered and do not regret it as I'm sure I would have passed out. The second time I was on my period for the procedure and I DO recommend this as your uterus is already dilated naturally and I do think it made things slightly less painful. Sat for 15 minutes or so in the examination room afterward to recoup and drov
I'm 36 and I've had Mirena for 2 1/2 years. Insertion was a bit more painful than a pap...but tolerable; some cramping through the afternoon. After a couple of months I stopped having periods...and still don't, This is AMAZING! I hear my friends complaining about cramps and bleeding...and just tell them...how much I LOVE not dealing with thaT! It's conveniences are Great! The only negative thing I can say is that I believe it has shifted my moods some...and I tend to be a bit more short tempered at times. Overall, it's great with no major side effects. I would recommend, and I'll prob. get another when the time comes.
Never been pregnant. I had Mirena placed yesterday. I chose Mirena over Skyla/Lilleta because I figured if I was going to go through such pain, I may as well get the OG. Even after consuming about 800 mg of ibuprofen beforehand and taking lots of deep breaths, it hurt. A LOT. I lost consciousness for a few seconds, and I definitely shouted profanity. I felt so nauseated that I stayed in the room for about 25 minutes eating fruit and sipping ginger ale. Cramps were about a 10/10 within the initial 15 minutes, then down to an 8 within the hour. I arranged for a ride home, which I'm glad I did. I stayed in bed for the rest of the day, and my cramps were about a 7 out of 10, so ibuprofen and heating pads were my BFFs. I woke up with almost no pain this morning, but I'm taking it easy. Cramps are currently about a 4/10. Although the insertion was awful, I have zero regrets. I feel so much better today and I was excited to finally ditch my birth control app. I'm so glad that I never have to think about keeping track of birth control again! I know some women go carry on with their day and even go back to work after having it done. Nope. I recommend scheduling insertion at the end of y
I got Mirena inserted almost two weeks ago. After reading reviews online, I took 400mg of ibuprofen an hour before my appointment (9am) and another 200mg right when I got home. The actual insertion was painful which surprised me because I have a pretty high pain tolerance, but It only took about 45-60 seconds for the doctor to measure and insert it so it was easy to manage. Once it was in I had moderate cramping for the first 45 minutes but definitely not the worst cramps I've ever experience by far. When I got home I laid down and took a long nap (about 3 hours) and when I woke up the cramps were gone and I haven't had any since. My stomach started to feel tight like I was going to start cramping again around 8pm so I took another 600mg of ibuprofen and was fine the rest of the night. As far as bleeding, my appointment was on a Monday and my period was set to end on Wednesday, I had stopped bleeding and everything was completely back to normal by Friday night. I haven't had any spotting since then. Don't read into the bad reviews too much, most people are only likely to post a bad review compared to those who have a good experience with it. I would definitely recommend it to anyon
Im 20 years old and just got my mirena placed on jan 4th, there was mild cramping when my doctor put it in which was expected but i was bleeding before he put it in and everysince i havent bleed or spotted.. hopefully it continues because i hate a period.
I got the Mirena inserted today. Insertion was slightly painful, but went extremely quickly. I am experiencing some moderate bleeding and some uncomfortable cramping. I'll check back in three weeks.
I had Mirena put in Dec. 17th, so I guess 2 or three weeks ago. I was really, really nervous about the insertion but it was not at all as bad as I expected. It was actually just like a terrible cramping/pressure, nothing I couldn't handle with some deep breathing. I inserted a misoprostol the night before, took 800mg of Advil before-hand and they gave me a cervical block. I thought the cervical block itself would hurt a lot but that was fine too. The whole thing was over before I knew it, I was surprised when the doctor said the iud was in. I have never had children. Within 30 min I got really bad cramps comparable to my worst period and within an hour these evolved to extreme, nauseating cramps like I'd never had before. This was harder for me than the procedure because I had no idea when they would end and nothing seemed to help, but they very gradually dulled. Had manageable cramps again the next morning but completed a shift at work just fine all the same, and felt completely myself and up to going to a party later. Haven't had any spotting yet except for right after the procedure. My partner said he can't feel the strings, which doesn't surprise me because it takes a lo
I was debating getting Mirena for a while but was put back after reading all the negative reviews online. After knowing people who did get this IUD and listening to their more positive experience and talking with my doctor I decided to try Mirena. I've had it in for 2 months now with barely any side effects! The insertion was short with some physical pain and I did have bad cramping for the rest of the day however, it was worth it. For the next week I did have a small amount of spotting/ brown discharge which can be expected. As well as some random cramps that were annoying but did not inhibited me from going about my daily tasks.I also read a lot of women gaining weight and having mood swings. It was hard reading these reviews and deciding what was an effect from Mirena and what was part of one's lifestyle. I have not experienced any weight gain, in fact I have actually lost some weight, but that was more lifestyle choice not the Mirena. Overall, the cramps and spotting at the beginning was worth it in the longer run for myself! If you are curious about an IUD, i'd recommend talking to your doctor or even calling some health care numbers to thoroughly get a good background check.
I got the Mirena IUD December 28th and so far so good, The insertion is quite painful but only took about 45 seconds. I recommend bringing someone to hold you hand. I bled the first night and so far nothing since, I still get cramps everyday but nothing major. highly recommend it!
I got Mirena after having a regular ID for 10 years because I liked the idea of light to no periods. Of course there were cramps when inserted because the are attaching something to you Uterus. My old IUD cramped a little when then put it in. However the cramps were mild during insertion and I only had them for a couple hours afterwards. After insertion I went back to my errands and didn't not need to take anything for pain. I've been spotting, but that is a side effect listed. IUDs are great especially if you want long term birth control and are forgetful when it comes to pills. Just keep in mind when reading some of these reviews that not everyone has horrible pain or passes out. My friends and I never experienced anything like that.
I've had my Mirena in place since February. The procedure to put it in didn't hurt at all, but I did have some moderate cramping for the next month or so. ever since that, my Mirena has been my best friend. I get mild cramps and spotting once a month, not even enough to need a tampon. I don't have to worry about missing a pill or lots of hormones. I recommend IUDs to anyone who will listen. I felt the need to review Mirena because I really like it, and I don't want people to be scared by the many negative reviews. The side effects were mild, the best one being no more period!! Great product.
I am 29 yo, I have no children, and I am a highly active ultrarunner. At 26, I switched to Mirena after 10 years on the pill. I had low ferritin levels and based on my lifestyle, the idea of not having to take a pill every day, and potentially not getting a period every month, appealed to me. I also have just one partner, so all in all it seemed like a good fit for me and my doctor agreed. I had it inserted in the summer of 2013. For me, the procedure was the most painful thing I've ever experienced (and I have a high pain threshold). I had a vasovagal response complete with sweats and shaking. For the next day, I had a terrible back ache and mild cramping. Over the first few months I had irregular spotting. After that, though, the IUD was wonderful as a birth control method and for convenience - I almost never got a period, no cramping, no weight gain, and it was 100% effective for us. However, over time I began to notice some downsides that my partner and I could only correlate to switching to the IUD: every month I would get painful cystic acne on my jawline and neck. I also experienced intense monthly night sweats. I saw my GP about this as well as an internal medicine
I'm 21 years old, I've had birth control for a couple years now so I know what to expect. Just took out my implant and was going to try the mirena and or skyla next. Awful idea if you haven't had kids! The placement of the sound hurt insanely because I haven't carried a child and I have a slight tilt to my uterus. My Gyno tried for two hours to place it and I stuck through like a champ. But my body turned on me so many failed attempts at placement made me go into shock and I passed out. I am currently at home on prescription pain killers and am not allowed to work tomorrow. This was the most painful thing I have ever done and I've had broken a lot of bones. I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PRODUCT!!!!!!!
If u just had it inserted, ur probably thinking its amazing ....After 2 1/2 years still was good but hey nothing is this perfect aking with it i gained 40 lbs andddd depression. I have a happy life im healthy, i would think WHY THE F&$!@ do i feel this way , well my whole problem was mirena!
I just got mirena inserted yesterday, 12.29.2015. I was on pills for years and was on nuvaring when I decided to make the switch. My procedure went very well. I was very nervous at first but my doctor was very gentle. I barely felt anything. She had a student doctor watching and did a thorough step by step. I felt very mild cramping when she measured and when she inserted the IUD. I had very mild cramping afterwards and spotted a little. Like the other women on here has said, every woman is different. Also, every doctor is different.
I seriously have hours from having the mirena... And my experience was not as it was mentioned on here! First of all to all the ladies looking at the reviews.... Don't take any advice from anyone... Only you know yourself and its different with everyone... You could be like me just have small cramping... And light bleeding or like others... Have bad pain however do as you please try it out ...if it works, great!!!... If it doesnt work for you.... Find another kind of birth control. Dont be scared to try it... I was bcz of all this stuff posted on here but when i came down to it... I sat and said to myself well my body may react different...and sure enough it went just fine. Soooo.... So far so good.
I've had Mirena for 5 years! Going on my 2nd round for another 5 years! I can say it's the best birth control out there that works for me. No more messy menstrual cycles!
At 35 yrs of age,i am on my second mirena and i LOVE it! I recommended it to my friends and few have had insertions with absolutely no issues! There are slight cramps on insertion but nothing serious..obviously every woman is different but overall its an excellent contraception. To date 5 of my friends have the mirena(including my sister)and we are all happy! Thanks to Mirena we will only think of our birth control once in 5yrs!!
I got the Mirena last week and honestly it is not as bad as some people have said. In doing research, I definitely psyched myself out being that I'm 17 and never had a child and seeing the reviews from women's reactions who have had kids I definitely was anxious. And yes, the pain from the insertion and cramps was definitely uncomfortable, but it was pretty quick and now I can see it is completely worth it. Yes, it did make me nauseous, but after an hour with a heating pad in bed I was good to go! Plus, one day of discomfort is worth having no effort with birth control for 5 years!
So I don't normally do reviews but it was from reading the review on here that helped me with getting the Mirena. I'm 23 years old and have gone through the pills and the nuvaring. I do work at a hospital and nearly all the nurses I work with have Mirena and explained it to me. I do not want kids at the moment and have no desire for them in the future either. The Mirena was a great choice for me since it is 5 years worth of birth control. Now I heard how it was implanted and not going to lie I was nervous and scared. I am a big baby when it comes to certain kinds of pain but let me just say that it was very uncomfortable BUT it was a quick pain. I was shocked when my doctor said she was done. Now I did have some problems a few seconds afterwards. I came close to passing out and ended up throwing up while experience a horrible case of the cold sweats. This I think is just because I got myself so worked up from being nervous that afterwards my body just had to do one of the two. I was in a lot of discomfort for about an hour or two after, driving sucked because all I wanted to do was lay down but it was do-able. It's been 3 days now since I've gotten it and so far I've had no noticea
I have given birth before, I've had appendisitis, a broken arm and a dislocated shoulder so I know what pain is. I had a student doctor put my mirena in and it was so painful!!! I felt like I was in labor again ( I got labor pains in my back and thsts were I was getting a lot of my pain!) I also kept cramping up badly to the point I would end up on the floor. I don't know if the student doctor didn't put it in right or if my body just didn't like it. I removed it after about a year..... Never again. I never had the severe cramps after they removed the mirena ever again... And it's been 8 years
The mirena only took 6 mins to be inserted. I honestly didn't feel any pain, just a very light cramp. I've had three children, two vaginally and one c-section. If anyone who can go through labor can definitely handle mirena insertion. I highly recommend this birth control method because let's face it we all are busy bees and forget to take on a regular basis pills. Mirena is for five years so no worries at all. After the insertion I did have mild cramping for an hour but wasn't bad to the point I had to take pain medicine. Everyone is different and every body is different, decide what's best for you and your body. Make sure you have a good relationship with you gyn because that will help you feel comfortable with whatever they recommend for you as well. From my part, I love it I feel great and no worries about forgetting to take my pills!
I've only had this in for a day now but I'm in so much pain, even with taking ibuprofen. I took ibuprofen before insertion and it was still pretty painful, I guess it was manageable though considering I just had a vaginal delivery two months ago but the cramping was comparable to the beginning of labor pains. After that I cramped pretty bad for about an hour than it went away, the pain has come back a few times since than. It's like I'm having these horrible episodes of cramping and stomach pain, and it's getting to the point where I feel like I'm going to throw up. I was not really for getting this in the first place and now I completely regret it after reading these reviews and the pain I'm in. Really want to call my ob and have it taken out NOW. 3 days before Christmas and not sure whether to stick it out for the holidays or not. I haven't been able to know the long term effects obviously but I still wouldn't recommend it.
Oh my goodness. I am writing this review because, like many people do, I read a mirad of reviews saying that the mirena insertion was EXTREMELY PAINFUL. I am 19 years old, never have had a child, and have an EXTREMELY LOW pain tolerance. The insertion was absolutely, 100% NOT AS BAD AS PEOPLE MAKE IT SEEM. Honestly, I didn't think it hurt at all. The cleaning/measuring was moderately uncomfortable and the actual insertion felt like a very small pinch. Afterwards, I ate a burger and fries (because, yum, I deserved it), went home, laid in bed with a heating bad and felt absolutely fine. I think getting the Mirena was one of the best choices I've ever made.
Please note, this review is only about insertion. I just got the Mirena yesterday, so I have yet to actually experience its effectiveness or long-term effects. I am 20 years old and have never had a baby. The insertion for me was very very uncomfortable, but it was over pretty quick. I took 800mg of Ibuprofen beforehand, and my husband came in with me, thank goodness. I don't know what I would've done without him. The speculum insertion and cleaning of the cervix were no big deal, but the measuring of the uterus hurt pretty badly. The sharp pain only lasted for about 15 seconds before diminishing, and the actual insertion was also painful but brief. Other than the pain, I felt fine. My doctor said I looked good so she moved my chair to a seated position from a laying position, and I went downhill pretty quick. I got very hot and nauseas, and I felt super crampy and had to poop. I think it was good that I had to poop because I was able to get some relief from the discomfort. I felt like hell until I got home, but after laying down with the heating pad for 15 minutes, I was okay. I took more Ibuprofen at 6 in the morning and was able to go to work. I still feel a little sick, but oth
I just had the Mirena placed an hour and a half ago. The insertion was not too painful; I give it a 2 or 3 on a 10-point scale with 0 being no pain and 10 unbearable. Most of the time was spent with the prep before the actual insertion. It felt like menstrual cramps. It took 10 minutes total time, so I think most women should be able to tolerate the procedure. Maybe I'll experience some negative side effects, though. Who knows.
I got my Skyla IUD 5 months ago. I am 18 and have never had a child. I liked the idea of the IUD because I didn't have to remember to take it, it was there for three years, it was the most effective, and because there was an option to have an IUD without hormones. I struggle with depression and anxiety and I was afraid that hormonal birth control would only make matters worse. However, because of all of the terrible period stories i had heard about it, at the last minute i had my OBGYN switch to Skyla. The insertion did not take long at all and amid horror stories, the pain wasn't unbearable. It didn't feel great, but it was well worth it. If the fear of insertion is what drives you away from this option, don't let that happen! Before my IUD my periods were like clockwork, every four weeks, five days, no cramps- perfect. Afterward, I still don't get cramps, some periods have been really light, but I have had a period that was over a week late and one that was two weeks long. This is to be expected in the first few months. I do not believe that it has had any influence on my depression/anxiety, at least not monumental. I haven't gained weight, lost my sex drive or any other negative
DO NOT GET A MIRENA! I had my mirena put in last year, at first my doc tried to insert it in his office but was unable to due to the tilt of my uterus, this was a very uncomfortable procedure which ultimately ended with me passing out and him stopping. So because I was having so much issue for so long with endometriosis and my medical history not permitting me to take anything estrogen based I chose to have it inserted in the operating room with a hysteroscopy. The pain from that was immense, I struggled doing anything high impact in the gym, riding on bumpy roads, and couldn't have sex until sometime in feb (2 months later). I also did not stop having period level bleeding the entire time. After that I had spotting everyday and spontaneous periods every few days until July and intermittent cramps that sometimes were mild and sometimes felt like I was being stabbed. Then in July I continued having the pain but my periods completely stopped (which was great because I got married and went on a honeymoon for nearly a month). Then I started having some right sided abdominal pain in September and had a ultrasound where they found a 4cm cyst on my right ovary. He said it was likely a fu
This has literally changed my life. It has helped with my endometriosis and at least for now has saved me from another surgery. I have had it now for about 7 months and the pain and mild discomfort at first has gone. I would highly recommend this to anyone suffering as I was with endo that pregnancy was not an option. I can't say how thankful I am that my doctor recommended this. My hormones are more balanced my adult acne is finally clearing up because my hormones are better regulated and I'm not bleeding all of the time like I was before. After two surgeries for endo and looking like a hysterectomy was my only option to stop the bleeding the mirena was a huge help. I feel normal again. I regret not getting it sooner.
I specifically wanted to review Mirena after reading a lot of horror stories on here that really scares a lot of women for opting out of this really amazing, and somewhat misunderstood method of birth control. First, I want to give my backstory. I am the mother of two, had both children vaginally, and am 30 years old. I have been on birth control pills, of all sorts, as well as having tried the copper IUD (Paragard) for six months before having it removed. My doctor recommended Mirena because the Paragard gave me extremely heavy and painful periods. Granted, there were no hormones but after sticking out anemia for six months I had it removed. I also attempted the Fertility Awareness Method for nine months with success but subsequently became paranoid that I would get pregnant because, it only takes one mistake! At any rate, I had the Mirena inserted which the procedure was a little painful, but nothing extraordinary. A lot of women on here complain about the insertion procedure which is leading me to believe that a lot of women out there are wussies! (come on ladies, we bear children for heaven's sakes!!) On a scale of 1-10, with 10 being the worst pain I give it a 2, maayybe a 3.
Insertion was no worse than my worst menstrual cramps, and there were only two of them. Took about 30 seconds. Most of the appointment time was my doctor prepping everything rather than actual insertion. Stayed in the office for a good bit because I psyched myself into a cold sweat. Overall not so bad. Now to wait and see how I like it as contraception.
First and foremost, if you have even slightly acne prone skin DO NOT USE MIRENA! My gyno told me I should be fine to start mirena if I get a break out here and there (which I used to) but when I started mirena I got massive cystic acne bumps on my jawline, cheeks, and neck. Incredibly painful and hard to get rid of. I stayed on Mirena for 4 months but had it removed because my acne got so much worse. That was 1 1/2 years ago, I've paid hundreds, probably thousands of dollars to fix the damage that happened to my skin while on Mirena. I am still breaking out and haven't found any kind of solution yet.
I got a mirena 7 months ago after spending 10 years on yasmin. The first two months I was having crazy hormonal withdrawal symptoms - moody, unable to concentrate, crying at the drop of a hat. I was worried that I was going to have flooding like a lot of mirena people do when they first start but I have not had a single bleed (even a little breakthrough) in 7 months! Part of the reason I went on yasmin was I had really bad acne and this has come back a bit (was hoping being in my late 20s would have meant I no longer had this issue). However, I've been to the dermatologist and got some drugs/cream which seem to be clearing it up. I feel a lot better than I did on yasmin as my blood pressure is lower and I don't have breakthrough bleeding when I get stressed. Was worried about my boyfriend feeling the strings but he's happy too :)
Had this PLACED 4 3/4 years ago. Lots of bleeding first 6 months then nothing since. Diagnosed with adult acne and PLACED on aldactone to block the obvious overload of progesterone. Works ok but have been left with about 8 acne scars which are requiring many derm appts that INS will not cover. About to have this removed and do not recommend this product if you have any amount of oily skin or history of any acne. Also, thinning hair MILD but PRESENT. Really thought all these issues were RELATED to being 40....NO....it's the mirena.
I've had the Mirena for 8 months now after having my second child. I have to have cesareans and have no family and my husband wants another baby so I felt like this would be the easiest birth control (new mothers are often forgetful). After insertion I had a lot of bleeding for a couple of months... almost 3 months... and thought it would never stop. Finally it did stop and I had regular and on time periods. Only this month, my period is two weeks late and I have 3 huge pimples on my chin and I haven't had acne since a teenager. I'm also bloated. I'm not sure if this is because of the Mirena but I feel really crazy too. Other than this experience, I love the Mirena. I know the Mirena can stop your period and I feel like maybe that's what's happening and my hormones are making me break out as my body is adjusting. Every persons experiences are going to be different. There are horror stories and risks with every drug. There are horror stories and risks with even getting pregnant. If you read all the bad, you'll be afraid of everything. Just talk to your doctor and make good judgment of your body. If you usually have bad reactions to things, don't have this inserted.
So I usually don't do these reviews... In fact this may be my first one for anything. I'm 26 and have only used IUDs as my birth control choice since I started needing it (19yo). I first was on Paragard, which I had for roughly 5 years, up until this past March when I was ready to find something that actually made my cramps better, and periods lighter. Oh hey Mirena! At first, I was ecstatic. I found this IUD that made my periods next to nonexistent, didn't have to worry about a pill, and it helped me not worry about ovarian cysts (which I had dealt with just before the switch). It wasn't until about 3-4 months in that I noticed I had gained a little bit of weight with no lifestyle change, my face was constantly breaking out with acne unlike any I had ever had (took monocycline which helped after a month or so but never totally clear), always felt bloated, had headaches like no other, and my mood had completely changed. I just wasn't the same person... A usually very bubbly and happy me turned into what felt like a drone. Just felt like I wanted to break out of my shell but couldn't. Only once in awhile did I feel like myself. The only common denominator I could fine for all these
I had been on the pill for a couple of years and found my bleeding was random and I wasn't not taking the pill at the correct times, increasing my chances of pregnancy which I was not ready for. Besides the pain of getting the Mirena in, and the spotting for 1-2 weeks, I have not had a period since and would highly recommend it. It is now fantastic and think it is the best thing I have done.
When I first looked into birth control to help ease the burdens of endometriosis, I started with the pill. This made me crazy. My emotions were intolerable. I stuck with it for about four months and then said enough. I had the iud inserted in nov 2014. It was a bit of an adjustment as i would bleed (barely anything) every day for a month or two. About 8 months in, bleeding stopped entirely. I rarely even get cramps anymore. It has been a miracle for me. Because of endometriosis, I was on the verge of losing jobs (more than once) and almost got in a car accident two different occasions (basically losing consciousness while driving). I've had mirena for about a year now and it has changed my life. I am so grateful for what it has done for me and I would recommend it for any women with endometriosis or otherwise life inhibiting menstruation. Being a female can really suck, but sometimes there's help. Take advantage!
I do not have Endometriosis, but it was the only reason close to my true condition: FIBROIDS. About 20 years ago, I had a tubal ligation because I was done bearing children. Pregnancy (2) had made me borderline anemic and I had always a couple of really heavy days that drained me during my cycle, so it was what I wanted. Fast forward 20 yrs to age 46 and periods still came like clockwork (28 days), but the heavy days became longer and I was more wiped out. Had to take iron supplements for the last few years. Enter Mirena March 2015. This was supposed to lighten the bleeding, but that is not was happened. At first it was just A LOT of increased clear and watery discharge. Had to wear thin overnight maxis everyday and change 3-4times a day. Then in July 2015, the heavy, heavy clotting began. Aug and Sept weren't so bad, but Oct was the start of the craziness! Two periods in a month with heavy clotting spells. Stuck in the bathroom at work for an hour as the poured out!!!! November 2015 has been the worst! Started Nov. period at the end of October and the blood flow and seriously heavy clotting episodes did not stop until Nov. 19th!!! Just poured out like a heavy rain... Awful! Dr.
I had my first mirena place Jan of 2012, I bled for about 8 weeks, but it wasn't bad after that some mild spotting here and there. Was unable to loose weight easily and was very moody. Got the mirena removed Jan 15th 2014 to try for a baby and found out I was pregnant Feb 16th 2014. I had my mirena placed for the 2nd time Dec of 2014 and no issues. Been able to loose 20 lbs so far. I was also able to breastfeed with it. I love it, and would highly recommend it after speaking with you doctor.to ensure it the right choice for you.
I got the mirena inserted in july, about 2 months after having my second child. Insertion was not painful nor was it painful after insertion. I was on my second day of my period during insertion. I bled for about 7 days as if i was having a period then spoted for about a month and a half. I stopped bleeding for 7 days then bled heavy for 7 days and spotting for a month. I stopped bleeding for 10 days then bled heavy for 2 days and been spotting since (which is a few weeks now). It is so annoying not being able to have sex bc of this constant bleeding/spotting. It will be 6 months in Jan. and hope the bleeding completely stops. I fear my boyfriend might eventually get it from someone else. He blames me for getting the mirena and having this bleeding problem. If the bleeding continues i will get it removed. I want my sex life back. I havent had any other side effects. I love the protection it gives and if this bleeding will stop i love that fact i can have sex freely with my partner.
I am 15 years old, i have had the worst period for 5 years. It was so irregular, i tried multiple different pills but none worked. My OBGYN had told me about the mirena and i wasn't sure about it at first but i took the risk. I plan on joining the Air Force after high school and with this lasting for 5 years its perfect for me. At first when i got it inserted i felt minor pain, and some bleeding. For the next few weeks i spotted but now im good. I do have minor cramps but nothing like when im on my period. I 100% suggest you to get the mirena if youre looking for both a long term solution and an easy solution.
From my personal experience, do not do it. I've had about every bad thing possible happen. I started cramping badly one week - took a pregnancy test and it was POSITIVE. Then, I had an appointment to have it removed.. And guess what? It's embedded in my uterus. I'm set up for surgery now. I do not recommend using this. I thought I was making the best decision but after having this in for a year and all of these problems. I do not believe this is safe AT ALL. Some people get lucky and others don't. I guess it's your personal reference to take that chance.
I went to my OB/GYM for my 6 weeks check up after have a baby. I am 19 years old and was on the birth control pill for two years. One reason I got pregnant was because I did not take the pill every day and around the same time. My Dr. recommended Mirena because I wouldn't have to worry about taking the pill. It was easier for me to have it inserted because my uterus was still stretched from having a baby but I experienced light bleeding and mild cramping. I would highly recommend Mirena!
I had my first one inserted when I was 35. I had some bleeding on and off for the first couple of months. Then nothing for the next 7 plus years. Yes, same iud. I went to the ob/gym to have it removed after 5 years. My Dr then told me that if it was still working, just leave it. It still would do what it was suppose to do as far as birth control. I went another 2 years with the same one and up until the last 6 months, no pain, no bleeding. The past 6 months I have had some pain and spotting. I decided to go and have it replaced. New dr. And I felt much more pain this time having it inserted. She told me I would probably bleed for a week. I had heavy blood the first da and, lots of cramping. Then second day light bleeding and a little bit of cramps. 3rd day and currently nothing. No bleeding, no pain. I absolutely LOVR mirena. I would 100% recommend it. But not all bodies are the same!!
I am a 20 year old who has never been pregnant. I spent 5 years trying to find the right pill for me, but none of them seemed to work. Since I have had migraines in the past my doctor would not allow me to take pills anymore so I decided to try mirena. After reading the reviews I was terrified that I would have a terrible experience.I got it about a month in a half ago and I am so happy. Yes, the insertion process was painful. It felt like the worst cramp I have ever felt. I did spot for 3 weeks and now am on my period, but not having to take a pill everyday and worrying about getting pregnant is so worth it. The only side affect that I have noticed is some minor cramping. I would highly suggest that people remember that everyone reacts differently. Don't be scared to try something just because a few people post their bad stories. People who are happy with the results tend to share less, but people with bad experiences feel the need to express how no one will be happy. So talk with your doctor and be sure to trust them and everything will be alright.
I am 1 year into my 2nd Mirena, 32yrs old no kids.... The first 5years were perfect, zero periods after light spotting on and off for a few months. The absolute relief from not having to worry about getting pregnant, but also the convenience of not getting periods is amaaaaazing. Not to mention the money saved from not buying tampons or pads :))) Insertion was slightly painful but bearable, espec since I havent had children. 2nd insertion wasnt as smooth, different doc who took a lot longer uurrrrrrgggh. I have noticed the occasional sharp cramp lately, which I will ask my ob/gyn about at my appt soon to make sure its still ok (Im not great at checking strings) Anyway - I really wanted to write this positive review because I think this is a great choice. Do your own research and remember to keep an open, critical mind (espec when reading those 'alternative' doctor blogs that seem to think IUDs are the devil). If you trust your doc and feel confortable with your decision, go for it :)
I have had 2 Mirena's inserted. One 6 weeks after my daughter in 2008, I did have heavy bleeding for about 3 months after, but I didn't know if that was my mirena or just normal after having a baby, either way, I stuck it out and after those three months of bleeding I never had a a full period after that, i did spot from time to time, but mostly I was happy that I no longer had cramps like the ones I had that were awful before having my daughter. Then I had my second Mirena placed in 2012 (only because I was losing insurance and I wasn't sure when I would obtain insurance again since I was close to the 5 year mark). Same outcome, no cramps, no bleeding. It has been a wonderful for 7 years. Now November 6th I had my second Mirena removed, we are trying for baby #2. After having this removed now for 6 days, still no bleeding, removal was 5 minutes and I haven't had any cramping. My husband and I hope to get pregnant pretty fast, but I have read many reviews saying it may take up to a year. Good luck to any mommy's TTC!! Pray that we do soon, too and God bless!
When I first got it inserted, I felt only a little bit of pain. I bled heavily for the first 3 months and had the most painful cramps. After about 6 months after I got the Mirena, I still was bleeding(only spotting) and started to feel very sick. Extreme nausea, the worst migraines, lower abdominal pain, lower back pain, very lightheaded, and started to faint. I got so sick I was practically bed ridden for almost 2 months straight. Not to mention my husband could feel it poking him during intercourse. My gynecologist never told me all of the side effects so when I started having all of these problems, I looked up the side effects online and looked at all of the reviews .... I brought all of it to my gynecologist and he told me that it was all practically bullshit and it was only online to protect Mirena.. I've had it out for about a month and my migraines stopped instantly.. I'm still having abdominal and back pain, as well as nausea. I feel pregnant. My uterus is hard as a rock, I look at least 3 months pregnant! I've taken over the counter pregnancy tests as well as blood tests for pregnancy, and all came out negative. Before I had the Mirena, I got pregnant very easily. one ver
I was freaking out about taking Mirena. I did my research. Read all the bad reviews. Read all the side effects. When I went to my OGBYN and told her all my concerns, she told me that reviews are mostly people complaining about the problems. The people that don't have a problem with Mirena are too lazy to go online and give Mirena a positive view. My OGBYN recommended Mirena for everyone. So safe. The procedure did not hurt. Honestly, if you've had sex, there isn't much of a difference. I took the medicine I was given to take before the producer. Took the 800 mg of ibuprofen every 8 hours to help with the uncomfortable side effects. I wasn't dying. What you read about spotting is normal. You get to have sex without a condom. You're protected. 99% effective. Your period eventually goes away. You don't have to take a pill everyday (which is 30% effective). So anyone who is considering getting Mirena and is freaking out like I was, don't be. You'll feel much better after you have a talk with your OGBYN. I have not gained weight.
I read a lot of great reviews on the Mirena, so I scheduled an appointment to get it inserted. I told my friends that I was getting it placed, and a few of them shared their story or friends' stories which had me a little worried. I ignored them because everyone's body is different. After 8 months of having the Mirena, I am getting it taken out next week. I have gained almost 25 pounds without diet change, and I got a vaginal infection from it a few weeks after placement (which my OB treated). She claims that weight gain isn't a side effect of Mirena, but after research, it definitely is. I haven't weighed this much since I gave birth 3 years ago. I would not recommend this form of birth control. I will be going back on the pill, which gave me zero side effects.
ALL of my hair started falling out within a week. It fell out in chunks and everything,e I showered, my hair covered the drain. I had terrible discharge. My hair line receded and I had a thing spot in the back of my head. After getting it out, my hair stopped falling out almost immediately. I saw hair regrow the about a month after having mirena out.
My OB removed a fibroid and performed a D&C to control my monthly bleeding. This was his only recommended solution to my bleeding. He did not inform me of any side effects and when I went for my 6 week follow up he dismissed the side effects I was reporting (continuous bleeding, hair loss, dizziness, fatigue and blurry vision.) I started bleeding more and more as the weeks went on - horrible abdominal cramping and bleeding thru super tampons hourly for weeks. My OB said he didn't want to remove the IUD because "it can take 6 months to regulate". Wish he . Would have told me that before I had it put in!! I continued to bleed and pass large clots daily. I found a new OB. By this time (3 months after placement) I had been bleeding significantly every day and my hemoglobin level had dropped to 8. My new OB scheduled me for a hysterectomy. When she removed my uterus there was no IUD to be found. There were numerous fibroids growing (one to the size of a lemon in the 4 months since my IUD was placed). The IUD also caused me to develop a large cyst on my ovary. Best guess is that the IUD came out in one of the large clots I passed. I have felt less foggy and had more energ
I had my Mirena removed after 5 years and a half three days ago. It was very effective and a success. Insertion and removal were a piece of cake, two minutes each at the most. A very easy proceedure.The main side effect that I had was anxiety and I'm sure it was due to the fact that I didn't have control of my uterus, the IUD did so I would panic over "not having my period" worring what if this thing doesn't do it's job. It did it's job very well and some for me. I guess different strokes for different folks. Mood swings were also a common side effect but I grew up and handled the anxiety, extra crying or rages by facing my fears and maturing.. Since removal I've had not one problem; no pain, no bleeding,no cramping and no anxiety!! Winning!!Overall very effective and worth a try. Good luck
I have had one child by c- section and yes it was uncomfortable when I had my Mirena placed. It was only for a minute, followed by mild cramps. I am having it replaced in a few weeks b/c I love my Mirena! I have tried almost every form of birth control pills on the market, with terrible side effects on all. I never found anything that did not make me feel horrible until Mirena. I can only speak for myself but i have had no side effects. Mirena is different b/c the small amount of hormones that it releases go directly into the uterus. It never enters your blood stream so it does not have the type of side effects on mood swings, weight etc.. I have had no side effects with Mirena and best of all, I have not had a period in 4 years (amazing)!!! The few minutes of pain to me is completely worth not having a period and having protection for up to 5 years! You have to try it, no regrets...
It hurt when it was inserted and when it was removed. It's been about a month and every day I've been losing hair. I didn't lose much hair initially but since it was removed I've been losing a lot of hair daily. I've had my first. It seems normal I just can't wait till my hair starts falling out.
I just got my Mirena placed on Oct 30, it hurt like hell but the pain only lasted during the insertion for me. I cramped for about an hour, and I feel perfectly fine now. I think that it is worth it especially if your horrible at taking pills like I am.
This review is really to share my insertion experience with anyone looking to get the Mirena. I am 28, never had children, went in while on my period, and it was a very painful experience. I had no idea that it would be that painful. Following the insertion, I felt faint and nauseous. I would recommend others to not plan on driving, and to take a few hours to rest. Ibuprofen absolutely helped, and throughout the day I continued to take it. The cramps definitely lessened, but were still slight. I did not feel like eating, but to take the ibuprofen I had to eat a little bit. Fortunately I did have a doctor and nurse that were very patient, and very understanding.
Day of insertion - horrible, and I've birthed two children naturally. But it wasn't post - partum, so that could be the reason. 6 months post insertion. Daily panic attacks, zero sex drive, weight gain (10lbs without diet change), mood swings, dryness, still have a period, odor during period I've never experienced before. This thing is ruining my life. I'm looking to take it out as soon as possible. Never before had issues with sleep, now it's terrible. Headaches on top of all that. Cramping and extreme nervousness during ovulation. I regret getting Mirena and will never get it again.
I got Mirena after having my child, so insertion was painless. I did bleed for all 6 weeks, but have since only had a little spotting for my periods. I have had no side effects for the two and a half years I have had it.
I got Mirena inserted at my 6 week post-partum check up. I read info on the birth control, side effects, etc. It has been almost 4 months since I've had it inserted and I did bleed for about two months. Nothing major, I got care-free panty liners at the dollar store & would change them 2 times a day. I didn't mind the bleeding. Mood swings? Very rare, but then again, I just had a baby a few months ago and I know my hormones are also still regulating. I haven't gained weight, I've lost a lot of it and I'm only 3 1/2 lbs. away from pre-pregnancy weight. & I just started working out last week. The insertion didn't hurt me at all, I have a high pain tolerance. I also didn't feel any horrible cramping after. I don't feel it, my husband feels it almost never. I have recommended Mirena to many people. I'm very happy with this birth control in comparison to Nuva ring, which I HATED.
Not going to lie. The insertion is pretty horrible. Worse than I was expecting. It was painful and uncomfortable. However the reason I chose to have the mirena was due to birth control and it does just that! I may get the occasional monthly spotting buy other than that my period is almost nonexistent. Im happy to report that I haven't experienced weight gain, problematic skin or any other side effects that are associated with the Mirena. I would definitely recommend the Mirena if you have decided your baby-making days are over. Yes it's painful but if you've experienced child birth you will get through this!
I had it for 3 years and I loved it! No side effects and I didn't feel anything when it was inserted and removed. Definitely getting it again.
I have read so much about this before getting it and I was so scared about all these negative reviews. It was so worth it!!! It was not that painful and I feel perfectly fine afterwards. Do not listen to these negative and scary reviews. It is so worth it!!!
After having a cycle for 6 weeks straight, I gained 18 lbs in 5 months despite making no changes to my normal exercise and diet regiment. Increased exercise and made further dietary changes to counteract and still continued to gain. After 6 months I had the device removed as while it reduced PMS it also "dulled" my personality per my husband. Experienced intense cravings that were very unusual for my normal PMS symptoms. The cramps after insertion were debilitating for several days. Was using the device to help with peri-menopause symptoms and not have 21 day cycles.
I have gotten the Mirena inserted yesterday and I want to tell you it was the worst day of my life. The process was uncomfortable but after I was walking out I fainted! My BP was too low and I had to be given juice and crackers before I could leave. As soon as I made it out of the hospital I vomitted what they gave me. I attempted to eat at home and threw that up as well. By the way the entire time I had cramps. I tried to sleep it off and was so hot I couldn't have any sheets with me which made it difficult to fall asleep with heat and pain. The entire day was horrible really because I couldn't eat and had cramps. Advil did help a lot though and I am on day two being able to keep food and drinks down but still with minor cramps. I hope it gets better. Apparently I am the 1% that experiences vomitting, fainting, and perspiring.
I am 34 yrs old with two children. I have had Mirena for two months. Insertion was painful and I thought I would pass out but it was only a few minutes. I had severe cramping for about a week and light bleeding. When my period started the cramps hurt more than usual. I was worried something might be wrong but my Dr said its just my body getting use to a foreign thing in my uterus. I had a week of normal bleeding then about a month of random spotting. This sucked the most because I had to wear liners everyday just in case. My second period was so light that I would have called it spotting if I didn't chart my period and know my period started. I don't feel it at all and my partner doesn't either so I'm happy about the results. I am more bloated and gained 6 pounds in two months. I'm trying to lose it because some weight must be water to happen so fast. I don't crave more and don't eat more so I feel I will go back to normal weight in a few months. I'm glad I'm not one of the horror stories I hear because that's my biggest fear. Depro Vera made me gain a lot of weight and gave me mood swings. Various birth control pills always made me nauseous and gave me acne so this is perfect for
For anyone who wants to use Mirena IUD for birth control,it's very effective!but if u are not concerned about weight gain& other side effects it gives then this is for you,I had mine inserted June of 2013 & it was ok during the first year but by end of 2014 to early 2015 I started to add weight,was still controlled as at early this year but right now my weight is out of control!!!I feel like a toxin/monster is now inside me cos as much as I eat less,I gain more weight,my body is retaining so much water& I'm craving food more than I ever have in my life!wen Iv never been a food person!At insertion I weighed 142lbs but right now I weigh 168lbs so Iv gained 26lbs(about 12kg) since I inserted it so watch out and think carefully before you use!!Iv scheduled my Gunnar appt for next month& in taking it out of my system& I hear I'd need a minimum of 6months to get my system to how it used to be from people who have taken theirs out! But if u feel these r no concerns for u then u can use it but for me,it's bye bye to Mirena IUD as I no longer have control of my body! Joan E
For me insertion was easy and painless even though I was not on my cycle . I was 2 months postpartum though . I wanted it to work for me and after much research thought it would be great. I was wrong A week after getting it placed I had my first postpartum cycle which lasted a month
DONT DO IT!!!!!!!! this was the worst experience of my ENTIRE life! These things should be prominently banned forever! The entire experience was a nightmare! The insertion was so painful I passed out...I had it in for 1 month and the entire time I was so sick! So bloated! And I bleed from the day I got it (obviously because you have to get it put in when you are on your period) and I kept bleeding for the following 3 months heavily non stop! I bleed even after I got it removed! And the removal...oh dear god...first of all my gyno tried to talk me out of getting it removed and I put her in her place! So she went in to remove it and she couldn't find it...the stupid thing had made its way into my uderin wall and they had to go into my cervix with a scope to remove it...it was extremely painful and they didn't give me anything for the pain. I got it removed in august and it is now end of October and I am STILL experiencing hormone problems...my new gyno said that I could be having these issues for the next 18 months or longer and they just have to run their course. I am miserable and totally regret it all. Please don't do it...seriously.
I have been suffering from super heavy periods my whole life. So much so my iron levels were so low I could hardly function and I depended on adult diapers to get through both day and night. Inserting was not an issue and was hardly noticeable. I did experience 6 months of spotting, moodiness and a few skin changes. I was concerned and irritated but my doctor suggested I give it a chance and wait for a couple more months. But once my body settled down, I felt (feel) amazing. I get a period every 4 months and it's so light I just need a mini pad (omg how great!), and I no longer suffer two weeks of agony every month. I do get a bit hormonal and a bit crampy every month but it passes. I keep track on a period app so I know. Today, I feel amazing and this product has transformed my life. I don't even know it is there. I have improved energy and don't feel like I'm losing two weeks of my life each month. I'm super happy with results and it's worked well for me. Took 6 months but glad I stuck it out. Very happy.
WORST EXPERIENCE. After getting the mirena implanted I couldn't even walk ! It was extremely painful to speak , cough , or anything that involved movement ! The process of getting it placed lasted only a minute, but the pain did not end as I intended for it to . I have also had bloating , which I have never experienced this bad ! I do intend on contacting my doctor Monday morning to get it removed immediately!
I'm at the end of my 4th week since starting Mirena. I'm feeling neutral about it. I can't lie, the insertion was a little uncomfortable but it only lasted a few minutes. I've had light bleeding and mild cramping every day since then. Grr. I think my period started a few days ago and instead of it being over in the usual 3-4 days it's still going strong even on day 4. Again I can't be sure what day my period actually started offically because I've been bleeding continuously. Good news is that I haven't gotten pregnant (score) and the boyfriend hasn't mentioned anything about feeling the strings (fingers crossed). I do feel bloaty around the stomach but then again I haven't been eating the best. Being on my period makes me want junk food so I guess bleeding for a month has contributed to that mentality. The constant spotting is beyond annoying and has taken some of the fun out of our sexy time but so far I plan to stick it out.
I had developed PCOS type symptoms. I can't wait to get my life back. This was my first ever type of birth control and I will never get another.
So today was the first day I had the mirena inserted by my provider. It was painful and all day i have had cramping but its been getting better after i slept the rest of the day. My acne from not being on birth control for two weeks gap, is finally clearing up and i feel energetic . no wierd cravings or water retention. The last drug I was on was the depo shot which made me gain weight, Im very excited to see how this turns out. Dont believe all the reviews on this website. works for some but not for others. I have never had children but have been on birth control since i was 12. I did start my period but I dont have a problem with this. Personally all i care about is the not having pain, acne, and weight gain(all nonexistant so far). and so far all of these are enough to keep me on it. Please dont let these reviews scare you away from trying. some people just have low pain tolerances. also I am 21 years old, and weigh 109, 5'0. .
I'm 36, no kids. I had a Mirena inserted 7 mos ago for contraceptive use. I've had a copper IUD in the past, so I knew to expect discomfort. The insertion was moderately painful, and I cramped and bled mostly continuously for the next 3 weeks. After that, I bled and cramped after sex for another 3-4 mos. At about 5 mos in, my periods—which have always been heavy—decreased to very light but continue to last longer than before, up to a week or more. Cramps during my period are also worse than before. However, I got this for contraceptive use and have not gotten pregnant, so although the side effects have been irritating (at best), it's still been a good option for me. I also have migraine headaches and was worried about getting worse/more frequent migraines with a hormonal IUD. I did start up with migraines again 1 month post-insertion; whether those are a coincidence or caused by the IUD is unknown. The migraines are currently managed with supplements. As for weight gain, I've put on 5 lb am not sure if that can be attributed to the IUD.
I REALLY wanted to like the Mirena. I've had it in since January and I'm not a fan. Not only do I have random (but light) periods but I have no sex drive and I've gained around 15lbs that I cannot lose. I am having more break outs now then I did when I was a teenager. Plus I'm incredibly moody and irritable all the time. I hate to write a bad review but I wish I would have seen one before I got it. Needless to say I'm having mine removed ASAP
Everyone is different! I read all the horror stories about mirena and I was so scared to get it placed. My placement was super easy I didnt feel a thing. Had very mild cramps and back pain but my doc gave me ibprophen and it went away. So far its been great. Almost knon 3 weeks and ive been bleeding for about 2 weeks but I know it will be worth it! This is definitely not for women who haven't had children or people who won't deal with bleeding for the first year. But if tou stick it out it will be worth it! No periods for 4 years? Awesome!
I have had Mirena for one year now. I am 52. My periods were extremely irregular and heavy and I had zero progesterone. I was a hot bed for uterine cancer. My uterus was also falling apart...part of menopause. The Mirena has been able to let me avoid a hysterectomy. Placement was painful for me. I had cramps for a day and some on and off spotting for a few months. But my period has stopped. I actually feel better not so tired out. No acne but some hair growth on neck. I would recommend it for older women who have menstruel issues.
So I can't speak about any longer term effects as I'm only on day 3. But I did not have experiences like these other women described. I actually knew NOTHING about any horror stories before going in and only was told I'd have some mild cramping. BULL. I have a high pain tolerance and 2 children. The pain I experienced having it put in made me view labor as a walk in the park. I screamed and almost blacked out. I assumed this was normal after the doc gave me 15 minutes to recover before leaving. I had contractions for the rest of that day to the point where I cried for hours, shook uncontrollable, and could barely walk. Day 2 was significantly better but I strated getting red blotches on my tummy. Today is Day 3 and I'm a bit more sore than day 2 thought completely managable. I still am sore to the touch and my tummy is so bloated I look about 5 months pregnant. The doc finally called back today and apparently just assumed I was a big baby and screamed for no reason. After looking through my history they changed their tune and am now scheduled for an sonogram in 4 days to ensure placement is correct. I will add that my cervix is majorly tilted but they knew that ahead
I am so upset with myself for letting my PA talk me in to this. Can't wait to go back to the pill. It's been 6+ months and I still have crazy heavy and irregular periods (several times per month), cramps, bloating, back aches....not to mention the irritability and hormone fluctuations. It's terrible.
I don't usually do these kind of reviews but I thought I should share my experience in case someone else could find it useful. So I had the implant inserted late August. I have a high tolerance for pain but this was really uncomfortable. Not to mention the cramping afterward really sucked. It made me extremely tired and I felt like I had a cold. The next day the cramping was better but that's when the spotting started. I also experienced really bad bloating in the coming weeks. I felt really irritable and tired most of the time. My bleeding/spotting didn't stop up until early October. I'm still bracing myself for another accident since it's so hard to predict when I'll bleed again. The reason I'm begging my doctor to take it out tomorrow is because I feel the side effects aren't worth it anymore. I started getting really bad cystic acne on my face. I can't even go out in public anymore. I've never had skin problems in my life. I'm opting for tubal ligation instead. Mirena was definitely not for me.
I don't usually do these kind of reviews but I thought I should share my experience in case someone else could find it useful. So I had the implant inserted late August. I have a high tolerance for pain but this was really uncomfortable. Not to mention the cramping afterward really sucked. It made me extremely tired and I felt like I had a cold. The next day the cramping was better but that's when the spotting started. I also experienced really bad bloating in the coming weeks. I felt really irritable and tired most of the time. My bleeding/spotting didn't stop up until early October. I'm still bracing myself for another accident since it's so hard to predict when I'll bleed again. The reason I'm begging my doctor to take it out tomorrow is because I feel the side effects aren't worth it anymore. I started getting really bad cystic acne on my face. I can't even go out in public anymore. I've never had skin problems in my life. I'm opting for tubal ligation instead. Mirena was definitely not for me.
I love my Mirena. I'm almost done with my five years and will absolutely be getting another one. There was some discomfort getting it put in but with having the recent memory of child birth in the back of mind it was very minimal pain. I haven't had a period or any bleeding for the last 4 years and don't own tampons or pads. I did have a little spotting for the first year during my cycle but never needed a tampon. A light panty liner did the trick. The only side effect that I noticed was acne around my jawline and upper back. After seeing two dermatologists it was determined to be hormonal acne caused by the Mirena since I didn't have it prior. Overall, I would take mild acne any over periods and worrying about an unexpected pregnancy. I would recommend that you try it with an open mind and to not take the horror stories too seriously. It will really put your mind at ease and simplify your life.
I have had the MIRENA in since 3/26/2015 and have a benign biopsy report for COMPLEX ATYPICAL ENDOMETRIAL HYPERPLASIA. I would highly recommend the MIRENA to anyone. The placement was perfect only a slight cramp while there. Never had any issues since.
I just got mirena inserted. I have never had any children and im also 19. Im not a virgin but obviously ny cervics are going to be small. They said they numbed me but i felt every bit of it. It feels like very painful period cramps plus pressure when inserted. The next 24 hrs for me was dreadful. But in the end its deffinetly worth getting. Dont have to worry about bleeding or getting pregnant..
Not going to lie, very painful at first. After 3 weeks, cramping and periods have completely stopped. I love not having to remember to take a pill every day. I would do it again. The 5 years of worry free birth control is worth the 3 weeks of minor cramping that I experienced
I can't really say much about how Mirena has worked for me, as I just had it inserted yesterday. But I just want to say that I did read all of the horror stories online and my experience was NOTHING like that AT ALL!!! I'm 17 and have never had kids, and it really was a little pinch with some cramping that lasted a few hours after the procedure. I also took a Xanax before the procedure, which my doctor said probably helped a lot. Now it's my second day of having it in and I've just had a few bouts of mild cramping. So please don't be too worried about everything you read online pertaining to the insertion process because everyone has the potential to react differently.
Terrible.... I have gained 8lbs so far.. it's only been 3months. I have also had pimples ever since... I have never had acne my whole life until now at 29. The only reason I'm still using this is bc it does help my bleeding issues...I eat healthy and have an active lifestyle but I still gain weight. Very frustrating
I have used the pill and the implanon in the past. I found that any contraceptives/birth controls that contained hormones drastically affected my mood and my weight. I was diagnosed with depression and anxiety (only after I began taking birth control contraceptives). I'd go from being happy, to crying, to being violently angry in a matter of minutes and I put on around 20kgs when I had the implanon. I had the implanon removed once I realised these side effects were a direct result of it. I started taking the pill again, and was then re-diagnosed with depression and anxiety and prescribed anti-depressants. It got to the point that I realised taking pills was not ideal, as I'd always miss them. So I made the choice to stop taking the pill and my anti-depressants at the same time. An lo and behold, no depression, no anxiety. I decided to do the research into a contraceptive that contained no hormones and came across the Copper IUD (Mirena). I had it inserted in June of 2015. Since I had it put in, my periods were irregular to begin with, and then went from being a regular 7days long to 10days long. My period would consist of about 5 days of brown spotting, about 3 days of heavy bleedi
I did quite a bit of research before going for Mirena, as the Pill had only made me irrationally moody and had done nothing to stem my extremely painful cramps (I'll polish off a bottle of X-strength Advil and a bottle of Codeine in 8 days). I checked out online reviews, spoke to people I knew who had it, and discussed my options with my doctor. Everyone seemed to find it either a godsend or hellspawn, but I figured it couldn't possibly be worse than my normal periods. The insertion was relatively painless; it took 5 minutes, and while uncomfortable, I've had much worse period cramps, so my pain threshold is reasonable. Perhaps this is because I wasn't on any hormonal BC for a while, but I had a period for the 41 days it was inserted, with heavy bleeding and severe cramping for 10 days at a time (I had to take oxycontin for those days) and my regular period cramping in between (2-3 days). Additionally, I went through the gamut of everyday symptoms, which I'd read about online but dismissed as angry reviews. I went through symptoms I had never experience before; constant depression, anger, exhaustion despite sleeping more, weight gain (5lb in a month, despite eating
Had my mirena placed 2 months after having my son. The procedure was painless and only took a few minutes. I had very light bleeding for a few hours and mild cramps that went away with an ibprophen. So far mirena has been the easiest birth control ever. I was scared after reading some posts on here, but honestly its been really great!
I've had my Mirena iud going on 3 years. I've only experienced irregular spotting with it. I randomly sometimes get very low back pain almost near my tailbone. I can't say if it's from the Mirena. I'm 38 and get pimples here and there, but i blame it more on stresa more than the Mirena. I will definitely get another one after the the 5 years.
I've had Mirena for 3 years and love it. I love that I never have to worry about getting pregnant and it gives my boyfriend peace of mind too. Only complaint is that I've developed acne on my chin since I've had Mirena. I've been to a dermatologist and tried a lot of meds but nothing seems to help. For me it's a small trade off and it's only on my chin so I deal with it. Other than the acne I have no complaints and I'm glad I chose Mirena.
20 y/o, 135 lbs,5"4, and only ever had sex with one person made getting this inserted very rough for me, in fact i fainted. also best to get it inserted during your period, I did not. Definitely take Advil before. But it only took 2 minutes to be inserted. Ask for a doctor who has a lot of experience doing insertions. the next ~24 hours after getting it inserted was hell. 24 hours of almost constant, deep pains - I had to take the day off. I should have asked for pain medication higher than advil. However, by the second day, I was back to moving around, albeit uncomfortably. Still chronic cramps, but not as severe nor often as the day before. By the third day I was feeling much better. Only had random period of cramping, usually when I had to urinate and pooping was uncomfortable. By the fourth day I was feeling pretty great - only occasional cramping. Now by the 5th day today I think I have only experience one short burst of cramping after eating too much. But I feel better already. My skins already clearing up, I am excited to have protected sex with my boyfriend (no reduction in libido), and I have not noticed any negative impact by the hormones besides I am still bloated. But a
Mirena is the best. No periods, no pregnancies, no problems. Uncomfortable insertion is totally worth the benefit. The horror stories are over publicized because people are more likely to take to the internet when they have a complication. Meanwhile, the majority of users are happy with the product. Don't be dissuaded by negative propaganda.
43 with no children birth control pill user for 20 years. After reading negative review after negative review I was nervous to get Mirena but thought each body is different so decided to proceed. Procedure was performed painlessly by physician who does multiple insertions per week and was quick and just a cramping discomfort for about one minute. Only side effect was some light sporadic dizziness for 1 day. Period stopped immediately after insertion and has not returned 6 months later. Sharing a positive experience to off set the negative.
I recently got Mirena to use as a bc (can't take anything with estrogen). The procedure was quick 10 min...no pain, only discomfort associated with a pap and cramps. I took 800 mg of ibuprofen as suggested...no issues, I feel great and now I'm not stressed about becoming pregnant before I'm ready. I'll update it any thing changes.
Loss of libido, constant bleeding (probably the two are related), weight gain, hair loss: something that I had never experienced before. Just not worthy, I'll find another contraception method. Just consider that it is something that you insert in your body and that your body probably has to constantly fight.
I just had my third Mirena put in a few days ago. I have to say, that all three times were very easy as far as insertion. I did wait until the final day of the 5th year to have this new one put in and before that, I could tell that it was nearing its end. I was bloated, I had breast tenderness and was very moody. The procedure took about 10 minutes and I did bleed for about 24 hours, but now i feel fine. My forehead has a few pimples but nothing too bad. I actually feel as if I lost weight (bloat). I would highly recommend Mirena to anyone looking for an alternative to BCP.
Before I start, it's important to note that every body is different and my experience can differ greatly from others. That being said, I will not ever suggest that any of my friends or family use this device for birth control. In less than 11 months, I had gained 20+ lbs, started to have awful acne, was constantly bloated and depressed. I consider myself a fairly active individual; I've ran half marathons, I lift weights regularly and generally workout 4-5 times a week. With the Mirena, it was absolutely IMPOSSIBLE for me to lose any weight. So the couple pounds you gain over the holidays – they stuck. The 5lbs you gain while on vacation – that stuck. And it really adds up when you can't lose it! Within the year, all the weight that I usually was able to work off in a week or so, wasn't going anywhere. I had my Mirena removed about a month ago (September 3, 2015) and in less than a month, I've been able to lose approx. 7lbs. And there was a vacation in there! As well as a week that I took off from working out due to a back injury. Seriously. The Mirena ruined a year of my life. All the hard work I had put into being in shape, GONE. I'm just happy that the Mirena was the reason for
I had the Mirena from August 2013-August 2015. It was very effective in preventing pregnancy - my husband and I didn't use any protection while it was in place. The insertion was virtually painless (but I had just had two babies, practically back-to-back). I had sporadic heavy bleeding for about 6 months, which was annoying, but then my period completely disappeared. I was glad I didn't have to deal with periods, but around that same time my hair began to fall out. I would lose handfuls of hair in the shower - definitely more than normal shedding. I also developed cystic acne. The blemishes were deep in my skin and painful. I'm in my early 30's and was completely embarrassed. I decided to go to a dermatologist, and he told me my acne was likely directly related to the Mirena (bummer). Despite all that, I hung in there because I enjoyed being with my husband and not having to worry about preganancy. In April 2015 I began to experience headaches on the left side of my head (behind my eye and on top of my head). I never really got headaches before and I was convinced there was something terribly wrong with me. I had the headaches every day. My hair loss was out of control. I decided t
Just had mine put in.hours ago and was.soooo nervouse the worse part is when.they measure.you for.me it was a little worse than a strong menstrual cramp.but i was jus a few seconds but my dr is awesome...ive had 2 kids and when.the actual mirena went in the nurse pushed down on my uterus and maybe that helped because i didnt feel.mirena goinf in...like.i.said.worse part was the measuring part...now.im just feeling crampy and tired...juat rest afterwards..
I just had my Mirena inserted less than an hour ago so the experince is fresh in my mind, and I used these reviews before deciding it so I thought it might be beneficial to someone else! For context, I am 19 and have never been pregnant, so I was thinking I might have a more painful experience than someone who has been pregnant/given birth. I have only ever taken oral contraceptives (Lo Loestrin for the past 2 years), but have been on several different kinds since 15. The whole thing lasted less than 10 minutes. They took a urine sample to make sure I wasn't pregnant before and I had taken 800 mg ibuprofen an hour before my appointment (I was not given a uterus softener or anything else). I do not have a high pain tolerance so I was very focused on my breathing and relaxing during the procedure (I think being calm and making small talk with my gyn helped distract me and in turn decreased the overall pain). The procedure as a whole was pretty uncomfortable but not horribly so. I would describe the pain a sharp menstural cramp and strange pressure. The only time I felt that pain was near the end of the dilation of my uterus and the opening of the mirena arms. I felt a little light he
The strings hurt me, my husband complained he could feel it while we were having intercourse, random menstrual bleeding.
I have had my Mirena for 2 years. I absolutely LOVE it. I was a little hesitant about the insertion, but it went OK. Hurt a bit, but was tolerable and very quick. Dr. had me cough while she inserted it to relax me, then I had some pretty bad cramping, but it subsided fast and then was normal cramps for the rest of the day. The cramps were gone by the next day. Since having the Mirena inserted I have had only two minor spotting periods. I was 49 and am 51 now which may have something to do with it, but I did have fairly regular periods before I had it inserted. My thought with Mirena was that at 49 I could have it inserted and by the time it has reached it's life cycle I would be in full menopause. I would recommend this to any pre-menopausal woman definitely, but when I think of all the years of taking pills I would recommend it to younger women too. I have had no issues what so ever.
I had the Mirena inserted almost a month ago. I got it because of its effectiveness and because it is a long lasting method of contraception. Before going to the gyno I took several over the counter pain killers and knew to wear loose fitting clothing, my only other word of advice is to possibly have someone drive you home (the intensity of your cramps when you have your period is a good indicator of the pain you could experience after). I never have extremely painful cramps so it wasn't too terrible, but I didn't feel great. The total time of actual insertion was about a minute, which consists of intense waves of cramps. The total time in stirrups on the table was less than 5 minutes (they have to measure your cervix and cut the string after it has been inserted). I have a great doctor and she does Mirena's often which I believe is key to having a pleasant experience. After having it inserted I had a small amount of bleeding and very intense cramps for the day. The bleeding got heavier and lasted around 20 days with little reprieve, it wasn't unbearable but it wasn't fun. I had cramps often but nothing that some Advil couldn't fix to make it bearable. After the 20 day mark it slo
Nightmare. I used it to treat premenstrual dysphoric disorder which is not even an option on here. Not only did it not affect my condition, it made me 10xs worse. Instead of my mood swings happening a week before my period, my mood swings were my whole life. I became mentally ill. Insomnia, months worth of diaherrea, dehydration, panic attacks, heart palpitations, crippling muscle tension, extreme fatigue, indigestion, headaches, bacterial vaginosis and yeast infections, self mutilation, suicidal thoughts. This drug is life threatening and caused significant disability. Two days after I took it out all symptoms went away other than the post tramatic stress disorder.
I had the Mirena inserted in January for period cramping , heavy periods and had it removed Thursday after 9month of having it. The insertion was painful even taking Tylenol before hand. After having it put in, I always felt a pressure from it, I had spotting and cramping almost everyday for 8 months until this last month, regular periods with the cramping I was trying to prevent. I was very unhappy with the Mirena from day 1. My OBYN checked that It was inserted correctly and that there was not infection as possible clues why the Mirena was not working as it should. I asked my OBYN to remove .After removal I felt a relief wash over me and the pressure I felt was gone. It just wasn't for me. I have friends similar age to me (40's) who have the Mirena and love it, some are on their second one. I believe that you have to be informed about the Mirena and do what you believe is best for you and your situation
I am on my second Mirena, got second inserted in Aug. 2015 ever since have gotten it I have been having dizziness, nausea, headaches, depression, nervousness, extremely tired and breast tenderness. I am trying to stick it out cause it helps my periods to not be so heavy but not sure if I can tolerate this much longer, not sure as to when the side effects will subside. I love the convenience of not worrying about birth control as this is my second one, I will give it another few weeks for body to adjust otherwise it will have to be removed.
I was so excited for the first few months of having Mirena, but that's ended. I've had it for 10 months now and am MISERABLE. I feel the strings all the time and it feels frankly out of place. Not only that, but for the past two months I've been getting heavy periods (super plus tampon worthy) and awful cramping. Went to the doctor two separate times and they said, "It's just a breakthrough bleed, all looks fine." Well, it's been a month since I've seen the doctor and I'm bleeding every day and still feel uncomfortable. Just scheduled an appointment to get it removed. Maybe it's just the doctor, but the insertion was awful. Being that I've never had children (the whole point of this IUD is to keep it that way), the insertion was just miserable. I was lightheaded afterwards and had to lay there for thirty minutes (doctor's orders based on how pale I got). I'll be doing research to look for another form of IUD that's not as awful as this one.
Heard great reviews about mirena. Also OB's are REALLY pushing it for contraception. I've had two kids so insertion was a breeze. Not painful at all, however, I had my period for 3 months straight and teenagers acne once I had this thing inserted. I couldn't take it anymore and had it removed.
Mirena was inserted 6 months ago. I love the convenience and freedom that it provides. The beginning was rough, but I'm glad I stuck it out. Insertion was painful and I was dizzy the first day and cramped for three. The part that was hardest for me was the daily spotting for a month. I nearly gave up. It was annoying and had a negative impact on my sex life. I was tired of ruining panties, carrying tampons all the time and spotting after sex. Now that the spotting has stopped, I don't have a period at all, which makes me happy. I've never had difficult periods, I just prefer not to have one at all. My partner has been getting poked and scraped by the strings. I definitely don't want sex to be uncomfortable for him, so I'm hoping that I caN curl the threads around the cervix to keep them out of the way. I'm worried that trimming them will only make the problem worse.
I have had mirena for three years now. I got the iud placed about three months after I had twins. The first two years were great and problem free. I had no period, no cramping, no bleeding or menstruation whatsoever. Now that I am in my third year, I cannot say the same. I have had nothing but issues and multiples ER visits because of really bad dull pains in my abdomen and pelvic region. Also countless pregnancy scares due to this IUD. Doing lots of research, I have found that this birth control, in fact, can give you pregnancy like symptoms. At first, I was trying to convince myself to keep it in for the last two years because I got the five year one, but it has began to become unbearable. I have scheduled an appointment to get it removed and will be looking into other options. A lot of the positive reviews, I have found to be from women who have not had it any longer than a year and only speak of the intial placement of the IUD. I am three years in and miserable!
After ten years on the pill, my body went whacko! I was having so many bad side effects such as mood swings and extremely painful breasts. The mirena has completely changed all of that!! I will admit the insertion was extremely painful and I almost passed out due to it. But that 5 minutes of agony has so far Paid off. I've never had a child so I hear that's why my experience was so painful. Anyway, now my boobs don't hurt and I'm able to exercise, my mood is stable and I'm so happy with these results!! It's been in for a little Over three weeks and all side effects have basically subsided. No more Spotting or icky discharge and cramping is minimal. My face also seems to be clearing up from acne and hormonal dermatitis. I really recommend the mirena to anyone!!!
I got the Mirena inserted on July 31st and ever since that day, I have been bleeding on and off. Some days are medium flow but for the most part, its light. I went from using super plus tampons to regular ones. The insertion was very uncomfortable. Lots of cramping and pressure. The cramping lasted until I went to bed. What I don't like is the on and off bleeding. I always make sure I have a tampon on me because I never know when I'll start bleeding again. And sometimes I get bad cramps, not as bad as I used too though. I have Poly Cystic Ovarian Syndrome and had always had irregular, very heavy bleeding, the Mirena does seem to help the flow, but I was told after 6 months of use, my periods should stop, so I'm looking forward to that. I recommend the Mirena for helping with heavy bleeding and also not having to worry about taking a pill. I have 1 child already and don't plan for anymore. Now as for pain during sex, yes I have had cramping afterwards. My husband can feel the string with his fingers, but not with his penis. I do bleed a little more after sex, but nothing to be concerned with. Overall, the Mirena is a good choice in birth control, and I've tried different methods in
I absolutely LOVE mine. My insertion was pretty bad but also very tolerable, I apparently have an oddly shaped uterus so the first insertion didn't place it where it should have been to actually protect against pregnancy which was not an issue for me. I had an immediate ultrasound which showed bad placement so the Dr had to guide it up farther in uterus with ultrasound and tech. There was moderate pain during my insertion but nothing that was so bad I would not have it done again and to be honest by the time I felt the pain he was coming out. I was very cramps the first couple days after insertion but nothing ibuprofen and heating pad couldn't take care of. I went from bleeding about 3 weeks out of the month to spotting every once in a while, I have completely lost track of my periods. I have had 1 real period since insertion about 8 Mos ago which lasted 3-4 days and not as heavy as it was. I have had some side effects since insertion but were more mild than and bc pill I have ever taken. I do get some swelling in feet and hands during hot summer Mos when I spend a good bit of time outside and or drinking anything other than water but after a day of increased water intake it is ba
I got mirena in may I had my son in march. So far I'm in love...but honestly I should have done more reading on everything. But I'm glad I got it. I'm 19 and don't want no more children at the moment. The placement wasn't to bad but afterwards I was light headed and couldn't move for about 30 mins..but once I got better I was able to drive home. My fiancee says he can feel it depending on which way we are doing things...but it has never cutt him or anything *knocks on woos* and the 2nd day we had unprotected Sex*not recommend it was a sudden moment thing* but did not get pregnant. Now I don't have periods! :) so if you want something long term...GET MIRENA!
I just got Mirena IUD and I wanted to comment on insertion. It is NOT painful!! It just feels like a weird pressure in a strange place, and the body may react like mine did where I blacked out for a second. But measuring and insertion literally only took 1 minute!! I also relaxed! Make sure you relax and it won't hurt! I felt fine the rest of the day. It was really no big deal. They prescribed misoprostol for cervical dilation, and valium for anxiety. I had periods so bad that I was stuck in bed from the pain and birth control pills didn't help, so I wanted to try Mirena.
Ive had mine for about a month. I had mine put in 2 months after I had my daughter. Since the pain from birth was still fresh in my mind, the insertion was mostly uncomfortable. I had mild cramping during and all uncomfortable pain associated with getting a pelvic exam. I did take ibuprofen before. I had mild cramping throughout the day. I have been slightly bleeding for about 3 weeks. But my doc said it's possible to bleed for a month or so. The whole point is to thin your uterus wall as much as possible. In order to do that you have to bleed, bleed, bleed. But it's light and manageable and on and off. I'm happy I don't have to trust myself to take a pill!!! So far so good.
I have been on Mirena now for almost a year. I didn't do much research, and no one at my local Planned Parenthood decided to inform me of the terrible cramping this birth control method would cause. Even for some who has had their cervix dilated, it's uncomfortable. I'm 25 years old, married, but unable to have children or take the pill because of the medications I am currently taking.I feel I should inform all new users of this simple fact: THE STRINGS POKE.They will poke your partner. They will poke you. On the inside. Be prepared for cramping and poking and EXTREME irregular discharge. But otherwise, EXTREMELY easy and extremely effective. I am almost period free now. It's a trade-off. You'll have to decide for yourself.
I got mirena two months ago. Like most women who haven't had their cervix open, insertion was painful (severe cramping, vomiting, my hands even cramped up and I couldn't move them). Probably the worst pain I've ever experienced so far. Anyways, it kicks in pretty quick. You can have unprotected sex(with a long term partner of course) after just a week. So far it works like a charm because I'm super sexually active with my bf. I had bad, random cramping for two weeks and a medium to light period everyday for about a month. The string leaves a scrape on my bf's penis after sex, sometimes it breaks the skins, sometimes it's just tender in that spot and we have to let it heal before having sex again. Other than that, it's great! I don't plan on having kids for quite a while (I'm 21) so I'm hoping this works out the whole five years!
I'm a 40 year old female with a 3 month old who needed an easy form of birth control. I had the Mirena inserted on August 3rd, 2015. For me insertion was painless. I did not feel anything and it took less than 5 minutes to insert. I had some mild cramping afterwards (on and off) for about a week. I'm in the process of going thru my 1st period with the Mirena and so far I'm going on day 8. The doctor stated this would be normal and thank goodness the flow is light and manageable. My husband claims he can feel the string at certain angles. The doc stated the strings will soften over time and curl up around my cervix. It has not affected my sex drive and it's more enjoyable because we don't have to worry about birth control. I'll be glad once my periods stop all together. Overall I've had a positive experience with the Mirena and wanted to share my experience.
I just had the Mirena put in and the reason I'm writing this review is because the nurse never told me to take pain medicine before and I highly reccommend it. I have been pregnant before but it was aborted so my cervix has been opened slightly. During the procedure I started feeling some mild cramping that turned into extreme cramping very quickly. After it was done the cramping went away but once I stood up the cramping came back and I could barely move. I felt like I was going to be sick and almost couldn't drive myself home. As soon as I got home I layed down because my body was going in and out of cold and hot sweats. Unfortunately I did not have any pain meds at home so I dealt with the pain. It's been almost 2 hours. I highly recommend to have someone with you after the procedure and definitely take pain medicine before and after. I will review again after a couple months.
I've only had my mirena for about 2 months, but so far so good! Granted, insertion was definitely painful and the 2 hours after were HORRIBLE (severe cramping, back pain, vomitting). 2-3 weeks into having it I got a period that lasted for 3 weeks. It was very light so it was tolerable, but obviously frustrating ...considered getting it taken out! The doctors did warn me that my period (especially the first) would be extremely unpredictable so I kinda prepared myself for it. It all sounds bad, but the payoff makes everything 100% worth it. Never have to worry about a pill or doing anything before sex--you're automatically set to go. My biggest piece of advice would be to just stick it out through the first couple months even if you have an annoying period or two because it's so worth it. I didn't have any change in mood swings or anything like that, no weight gain, no change in sex drive, etc
The main reason I had the mirena inserted was because my periods are extremely heavy - and by that I mean, changing a super tampon/ maxi overnight super pad every hour. I wanted my periods to go away, and also as a birth control, it gave me the power that I like. I've read all the terrible and good stories about insertion of the mirena, and obviously it depends on the person. I did get cramps, i felt the pressure, something i've never felt before since It was also my first pelvic exam. What someone or the reviews did not tell me was that it can also give you the feeling, to need to take a crap and bad. I do recommend taking an ibuprofen with food before coming in as I did not, which was a huge mistake. Immediately I started to bleed, I had the chills, cramps, my legs were in pain like a normal period that my boyfriend even had to help me after the insertion. The insertion was very uncomfortable, and it still felt uncomfortable afterwards. I have never been pregnant, and do not plan on getting pregnant, which was why the mirena was recommended for me as the shot did not work. However, the insertion took only a couple minutes, and the doctor was able to tell me what was going on, and
I got mirena inserted today and it was the most painful experience of my life. I have never had kids and I would only recommend this to someone who has had there cervix opened before. I was not prepared for the pain I experienced. I got extremely dizzy and nauseous and cried the entire time. It's been about 6 hours now and i am still experiencing some cramping but manageable, especially with the help of ibuprofen!
I'm 24 years old, I have never been pregnant and I just had my Mirena inserted today (August 21st 2015). I was one of those who made the huge mistake of reading some of the horror stories. While I do not, in any way, want to diminish the experiences of those women, I don't think a traumatic insertion in the norm. I don't typically get cramps during my period so I found the sounding (when the uterus is measured) to be very uncomfortable. When the IUD was inserted I also felt very uncomfortable (pressure and cramping). With that said, it was absolutely manageable and did not take longer than 10 minutes. The cramping began subsiding almost immediately. My doctor recommended that I take ibuprofen prior to the procedure and I believe this to be a huge help! As for those who have experienced weight gain, this is something that could have occurred for any number of reasons, many of which have nothing to do with Mirena. The Mirena IUD actually contains less hormone than the pill does so the chances of gaining weight specifically from the IUD itself are very low. As always talk to your doctor to determine if an IUD is the right choice for you, so far I've been very happy with it. I just wan
I had a horrible experience! Constant bleeding for 8months I finally went to the doctor to find out the it migrated and needed to be removed immediately!
I literally only had it in for 10 days because the constant cramping. They gave me pain medication for the insertion and for the first week. Without that I was miserable all the way to my back and hunched over. I asked for more pain meds because I couldn't work, mother my 2 children without them. I was also going on a trip. They wouldn't refill my prescription (which I understand) so I said TAKE IT OUT! I literally felt better almost instantly. I have talked to a lot of friends that highly recommend it but all bodies are different and not as "accepting" to foreign objects in our body.
I can count 5 times that I have gotten BV while using the Mirena... I literally have a yeast infection every month, haven't had a period in six, and sex is so uncomfortable because of the dryness and lack of libido. Not to mention hubby also feels the coil strings sometimes; and, lord, those AWFUL mood swings! I have had this contraption in for a little under a year, and I'm taking it out HAPPILY. It might work for other women, but it was hell for me.
I have had the Mirena IUD for four years. Insertion was very uncomfortable but manageable. I did experience light cramping and bleeding, but have not had a period since! Those are the only positive things I have to say about the Mirena. Although very convenient and effective it is not worth the side effects. Like the previous reviewer stated it took me four years to figure out that Mirena had caused these issues. This includes horrible acne that I did not have before. I have not had clear skin in four years! So much time and money was wasted trying to clear my skin. Then I had horrible lower abdominal bloating that never goes away. I have had weight gain not a large amount but I am unable to get rid of it through diet and exercise. Loss of sex drive. Not a great thing when your married! Last, low energy and mild depression. I was never told by my doctor any of these possible symptoms. I was only warned about the cramping and bleeding. I wish I would of been told so I could of resolved my symptoms a lot sooner. With all this being said Mirena is great if you don't experience the symptoms. I would recommend Mirena only because there are some good things about it. It also seems that m
29 yrs old & two kids, four years with Mirena. The OBGN who inserted the IUD had 20 years experience. Took some advil upon arrival and when she inserted it didn't hurt. Once home cramped a little and small bleeding. Now after four years on it I've gained 25 pounds, hairloss, anxiety, depression, acne got worse, breast tenderness, and bloating. Yes it was effective but after all the side effects, not worth it. Can't believe it took four years to figure out that the Mirena was the cause of all this. Worst four years ever.
I had Mirena placed a few months after the FDA approved it for women who have never had children. My uterus measured the smallest possible to qualify, which I am not sure contributed to my pain upon insertion. It was an intense, strong pinch, worse than any period cramp, but only for a few seconds. The days after, I would double over in pain from the cramps. I pushed through, hoping that my body would become accustomed. And it did. By the time a week passed, the severe pain subsided and the cramps slowly reduced for about 8 weeks after insertion. Now, I figure the 8 weeks of pain are well worth the 99.999% effective rate, no pills, no running to the pharmacy, no running out of rx before annual, and either no period or extremely light spotting. Mirena is the #1 used birth control in the world and #1 used by female doctors (this is per a law firm site soliciting cases). Worth it in my book!
No previous births prior to the Mirena. I've been using it for 1 year. The insertion was painful, I nearly fainted (which I told was because of the inexperience with child birth).I've continued to have my period every 20-28 days and my PMS symptoms are on-par with no hormonal treatment, which has always been an unpleasant experience for me. The cramping continues to be painful during menstruation for the first 2 days of each. Sex drive is down, acne has increased, and I've put on about 15 pounds (though I changed from an on-the-feet job to a desk job in the past year, so no causal effect can be made). However, no shots, no pills, and no condoms. My husband and I have been baby-free, as we've chosen, with the help of Mirena. I consider this the good outweighing the bad.
I had mirena the entire 5 years. It was a bit painful at insertion, due to the cramping, but it worked wonderfully for 5 years. I gained a bit of weight and it caused acne. Getting it removed is another story... it shattered upon removal, broke into 5 pieces, all of which were removed, painfully, besides one arm. 9 months later, had surgery to remove the arm from my cervix, shattered even more and now there is about 1/3 of the arm lodged in my cervix still. I am now sterile and cannot have babies due to the problems with it and unfortunately still have a piece of it stuck somewhere in a muscle in my cervix.
Mirena made me extremely depressed. It completely stifled my sex drive and made me bleed for days after intercourse. It threatened my marriage. After having it removed life has improved dramatically!
I had my original Mirena inserted in August of 2010. The insertion wasn't particularly painful- did have some cramping and bleeding afterwards. I didn't lose the monthly spotting but it did reduce the bleeding down to me just using a regular tampon when before I would need a pad and super tampons during the first three to four days of my period. I didn't gain any weight and it did stay in place. I would recommend it for women but as with any birth control or any other method of contraception talk to your doctor. Not all of us are the same. I do not have any children so my insertion was probably different from those who have had a child. I am getting my second Mirena next month. It's good for those who don't want to bother with pills, five years, etc. The removal was like a pop, over in one second or so. Everyone is different. My experience has been positive. Second recommendation would be the Nuva ring.
The Mirena has made my life so much easier! I used to have heavy painful periods. I also had difficulty remembering my birth control pill. After getting my first Mirena my period immediately lessened and by three months I had no period. I continued having no period for the entire time it was in. I was so happy with it that when the time was up I had the old one removed and my second one inserted at the same appointment. Now on my second one I had no period for the first three years. After the third year I began to have some light bleeding that lasts about 2 days monthly. It is the best method I have ever used and I plan to get a third one when the one I have in is ready to come out.
I've had my Mirena for about 2 years. The insertion was the most painful thing I have ever experienced, that is not an exaggeration. I typically have a high pain tolerance but I could not take that. I bawled my eyes out the entire time and spent the entire day leaned over in pain. I had excruciating cramps for weeks. They were nothing like normal period cramps. There was a lot of pressure in my back and rectum and were so bad that I couldn't even sit still. No over the counter pain medicines worked. I went to my check up and was told that what I was experiencing was normal. The doctor then proceeded to check the strings but was unable to find them so I had to have a ultrasound done. They said it was where it was supposed to be and that was the end of that. Over time, I have experienced many side effects including: nausea,cramping,joint pain,weight gain,fatigue,depression,and anxiety. The cramping comes every week and all of the sudden and it is just as severe as when I first had it put in. Last year, I went to a new Dr. and was told that the strings were cut too short and that I would have to have a Hysteroscopy done to remove it. I have not yet had it removed out of fear. I am ab
I got the mirena July 9th while on my cycle...the insertion was just mild cramping not to bad at all..the 15th of July i started bleeding again and noticed a mild odor...I havent had sex since the birth of my baby in May so I know it's not an STD...I've done some reading many women say its normal due to the PH balance being out of wack....I'm tired of bleeding and the smell has me self concious...I'm going to give it another 2 weeks if no change I'm getting it removed.
Let me start with this, I know that Mirena is very effective for a lot of women for contraception and for treating various medical conditions. That is fantastic. However my experience with Mirena has been horrible. I had the IUD placed a while ago. The insertion was painful. The periods stopped for approximately 1 year. The painful ovulation ceased. However complications set in soon after. I cramped constantly .For about 6 months I had a continuous period. I gained 60 pounds, my blood pressure shot up, energy level went down, increased mood swings, and hair loss occurred. I did go to the Dr and blood work with an ultrasound showed no abnormalities. The dr informed me ,"This happens from time to time with the Mirena." Needless to say I found another Dr. The ultrasound showed a weakness in my uterus. She removed the device today. As soon as I stepped outside her office door to leave, I started severely bleeding down my legs. I was passing blood clots. Luckily my dr is at a military hospital so I was able to get treated immediately. While I know the symptoms I experienced is uncommon, I want to let women know that major issues can occur with the Mirena. I am in no way attempting to s
So I got this put in on July 31st. I read all the reviews before and they all said how painful it was so I was FREAKING out. I went in and pretty much told her straight up just stop talking and get this over with. The pain was not terrible whatsoever. It was just a mild period cramp. She said I should have started bleeding that night but still nothing. And I had sex the day I got it put in. Wasn't painful and it actually made the cramps go away. (I'm 18, no children)
Had the Mirena almost 8 months. Currently recovering from the emergency c section I had to have to remove it after numerous different procures failed to remove it. It embedded and perforated my uterus so .. my next pregnancy will have to be delivered via cesarean due to the tear. IUDS have the potential to cause severe harm and is not with the pain. I have a 10 month old I cannot even pick up or care for. Mirena has been nothing but a nightmare and the stories like mine are conveniently no where to be found when researching it's maker, Bayer. The numbers of women who have been harmed by this is only growing. Do NOT get the Mirena and if you have it, get it removed asap!
I've had the mirena for about a day. In overall impressed. They said I may not be able to have it. I mean I am a virgin after all. But surprisingly it didn't hurt. The cramping was painful. Nothing hurt until then because my period cramps were just as bad. So far I've not had any bleeding or spoting. And now the pain I can hardly feel. I'm hoping it stays this way.
I had my appointment this afternoon and prior going to my docs office I goggled Mirena insertion and I was so scared! My doctor took time to explain the procedure and she also made me aware of when I supposed to feel pain. Unfortunately I wasn't able to get Mirena placed today because my cervix is very tight (something normal for woman that never had children before) so she decided to reschedule the appointment and gave me a prescription I need to take few hours prior the insertion, this should help the cervix get wider. I made it all the way to the point of measurement and that was the only part when i felt some cramping, very similar to PMS. It wasn't that scary or painful. Right now I feel light cramping and to tell the truth I am a little sad I wasn't able to get it today and get over with, but at the same time I am looking forward having the procedure done very soon. My recommendation for girls that never had kids before is to talk to your doctor prior scheduling the insertion and find out if you can get something that will help your cervix prepare for the procedure, this may save you a trip to the doc's office!
I'd been on the pill for two years but I was terrified about getting pregnant and so I decided to try this. Insertion did hurt but not as bad as people say. I did not bleed after the procedure and now my first period after getting it is due but I haven't gotten it so I'm in the lucky 50%. I check the strings every few days and can feel them easily but boyfriend hasn't felt a thing (he's bigger than average and we've been in deep penetration positions). I've lost the birth control weight but gained some boob which is nice. Another nice thing: this device game me my sex drive back. I have more discharge which some people hate but it makes sex for me not hurt like it used to. After the doc gives me the green light, boyfriend and I are going to pull out instead of using condoms. This thing is amazing!! Only real side effects I've noticed are some occassional cramps and an increase in mild stress headaches. An added note: I am an 18 year old who has never had a child.
I had the mirena inserted in the beginning of June after being on the depo provera shot for almost a year. I absolutely hated the shot but didn't want to go back on the pill since my work schedule doesn't allow me a time to take it everyday. My doctor went over every detail with me and explained the procedure before and during. The insertion was not bad at all the only uncomfortable part of it was the measuring. I felt fine afterwards but as I was driving home (the office is 45 minutes from my house) I began experiencing the worst cramps of my life. I've never had a child so that may have contributed to the pain. I had the same horrible cramps for two days but felt normal after. I still get random horrible cramps every once in a while but a heating pad usually helps. My sister got the mirena a couple weeks after I did and had no problems at all (she has a child) so really it just depends on how your body reacts. I honestly think the mirena is worth the pain since I don't have to worry about getting pregnant until I'm ready. If you're looking for a great birth control that requires little work I would recommend it.
My experience has been great! Insertion was way easier than I expected! The whole process (measuring my uterus and ovaries via ultrasound, cleaning my cervix with a brown soap, then actual insertion) took around 20 minutes. The insertion itself was just one big pinch, not comfortable, but certainly bearable. My doctor used ultrasound to guide insertion, since I've never had a baby. I did have cramping for the rest of the day and evening. Sitting was not fun. I was fine standing or lying down. I actually went straight from insertion to workout (I work at a fitness studio, so it was not a choice!) but I think that may have helped not notice the cramping as much. Day two, my period stopped and so did the cramping. I've had minimal spotting since. It's been in a week and a half and I am so happy I did it! After reading other reviews, I was a little apprehensive, but everyone's body is truly different. I just wanted to put a positive review out there! Don't be afraid!
My dr suggested the mirena because of extreme heavy bleeding And I needed a birth control. I have had no problems nor had any side affects with the mirena. I LOVE it! I had severe pain with sex before the mirena and now I have none. And I also have 2 blood clotting disorders which causes me not to beable to take any type of hormonal birth control but I can have the mirena because the progesterone stays in the uterus and doesn't go through your blood stream. Every woman is different and some can't tolerate it. My 24 yr old daughter couldn't tolerate it and had it removed due to severe cramping and pain, when the dr removed it she found the string up inside the uterus instead of in the birth canal.
I am not sure if anyone will even see this review, but if it helps just one person I will be happy! I went to my OB seeking options for birth control that did not contain estrogen. I am on another medication and if estrogen is taken with it, it lowers my levels of the much more important medication. So my OB suggested a progesterone only form of birth control and began to rave about how great Mirena was. Saying I would eventually stop having periods, it's effective for 5 years, etc. So I tried it out. This insertion process was uncomfortable, but tolerable. The next few hours however were much worse with very severe cramping, but I was fine the next day. I went for my checkup a month later and Mirena was still in place properly. As my OB said, I bled for about three months, lightly-moderately and consistently. What I didn't count on was bleeding like that for 3 additional months (I basically had a 6 month long period). On top of that, my periods never stopped. I had a consistent period every month after the initial 6 months of non-stop bleeding. As a woman I am aware everyone's body tolerates these things differently, so I was just thankful for the very reliable contraception that
I have had a rather interesting experience with the Mirena. I had my first one inserted on 5 June 2015. The insertion was quite painful, and my blood pressure dropped, so I was quite dizzy and nauseous afterwards. I had bleeding for a month.... and then it FELL OUT! I wasn't even aware that that could happen. Luckily, because it happened in the first three months after insertion, the company replaces the device for free. The second insertion (yesterday, 20 July 2015) was WAY easier. It was less painful and I didn't get dizzy or nauseous. No cramping or bleeding so far. :-)
I Am 16 Years Old Just Had A Baby Born In March In April I Was Looking At Different Birth Controls Such As Which One Do I Take To Not Gain Weight And The Most Painless I Go In Asking The Doctor Will I Be Bloated Will I Get My Period Still I regularly She Couldn't Put It In Correctly So Another Doctor Had To Do It & I Started Noticing A Few Weeks Later I Started To Get Super Bloated Very Bad Abdominal Cramps To We're I Can't Walk Or Stand & I Have A Son So I Always Got To Be Doing Something I Have Very Light Bleeding Here And There And Uncomfortable After Sex I Am Starting To Get A Very Itchy Rash On My Chest Very Bad We're It Discolored My Skin From Itching Hair Loss Little By Little Everyone's Body Is Different Mine Rejects It Other Than That I Do Not Recommend This
I'm actually 16 and had this put in at 15. Which comes as a shocker to most people. Since I've had this I am depressed, have mood swings, have bad acne, and have gained 15 lbs. I am NOT impressed whatsoever. The only thing I like is not having to remember to take a pill everyday. I'm at high risk and possibly have endometriosis that's why I was reccomended this. But I was 110 before having this placed and now 7 months later weight 125. I've always been a happy teen with a great life but now I'm depressed and cranky everyday of my life. I'm a totally different person. I'm so insecure and my friends and family see a big difference in me as well. Not sure if I'm getting it removed just yet but I'm definitely thinking hard about it. I'm young and should not be feeling this way. My weight gain may not seem like a ton but to me it is. I cry every night over how insecure I am and how I look. Also my acne is terrible. I know I'm a teen but I've always had great looking ski. Until this thing. I've also have been having troubles with abdominal tenderness and doctor predicted that is due to possible endometriosis it my gyne said the IUD would help that. Yet it hasn't a single bit.
I have had the Mirena inserted about a month ago.. I bled for two weeks and are often spotting.. I've had mild cramps and back pain.... to top it off I have a rash all over my tummy .. is this even normal??
I have had the mirena for three years so far i love it i have had no problems with it i have two kids doctors say i cant have anymore i got mirena it doesnt bother me i have cramps yes but i had the best doctors in los Angeles put mine in everyone is different i havent had a child every since i have been on it its amazing to some people but to me its been very good.
I have been on the Mirena for about 3 weeks now. I have one child and he was born via c-section. I have to say the procedure was uncomfortable. Especially because it had to be inserted while menstruating. I decided to get the Mirena because I have severe heavy periods and severe menstrual cramps. In fact the word cramp isn't a big enough word to describe what I experience monthly. During this time I have always stayed home from school/work. When I was giving birth and having contractions the nurse couldn't believe how I was tolerating it; but it was because my contractions just felt like I was on my monthly cycle. The insertion was uncomfortable and painful. However it only Last a couple of minutes. Afterwards I experienced severe cramping on top of my regular cramping since I was on my period. I Experienced that pain for the next 3 days and could barely walk without limping. Now 3 weeks later I am still cramping on and off and I have to take pain killers daily. I am still spotting too and have to wear a pad/liner everyday. I have had intercourse since (while lightly spotting) and I bled heavily afterwards! I'm hoping that the negative side effects go away soon. Like any
I had the Mirena inserted yesterday (July 10th, 2015). I had originally wanted to get the smaller device, but my doctor suggested the Mirena because he suspects I have endometriosis. I've never had kids before, so I was a bit scared. When I was on the table getting "measured", he told me that I was JUST the minimum size for the mirena, which terrified me. Insertion was extremely painful, despite by 400mg advil and being on my period and all that. The next 24 hours were some of the worst abdominal pains I've ever had (my periods were never super crampy), and the pain was constant. I'm worried, obviously, but I hope things normalize within a day or so.
I have had Mirena for about six months. It was NOT fun getting it put in. It was quite painful but it has done its job. I have never had acne and for some reason when I started on Mirena I get it A LOT around the side of my neck and occasional on my chin. I never had acne before so its kind of a change. I have had 3 periods while on it. ALL of which were tolerable. I do notice that after intercourse I do bleed occasionally.. and I have had my guy tell me that he could 'feel it and it hurt' lol. But other then that, Im no pregnant! No weight gain! and NO PILL!
It was terrible! It migrated twice!! Was extremely painful to put in and place back where it belonged. Caused daily pain that was initially thought to be cyst due to a sonogram review. Once the device was removed I experienced no more pain from day one!!!
Hi I got the Mirena July 9, 2015 it was a piece of cake!! I have just one child and with her I had a vaginal delivery. It's just a tolerable pinch and your done. I was seriously scared but it was all for nothing. I definitely recommend the Mirena only had tolerable cramps a few times today nothing serious. So far so good:)
I suffered from severe menstrual bleeding for almost a year. After changing doctors, I finally was put in touch with an excellent doctor who immediately started treating my issue, all the while showing extreme concern with my shockingly low blood count. At first I showed some success with a medication regime that would control my bleeding. That worked for about a month but then back to heavy bleeding. After constant visits to my doctor and repeatedly discussing our options, she convinced me to try the Mirena as a last ditch effort before a hysterectomy. I'll admit, I did have a little discomfort immediately following the placement of the device but that only lasted a couple of days. After a couple of office visits, we were pleasantly surprised at how well Mirena was working for me. Less than six months after having the device, my blood count has doubled. This was a huge relief to my doctor, as she would check up on me regularly, day or night and had me ready for a transfusion at any given time. I can understand that there are some women who have not had the same success with Mirena and may as well have experienced some severe issues, and I'm sorry to hear that. However, I h
I have had Mirena for 3 years now.When I first got it was after my only child and before that I was on Depo for 2 months of non stop bleeding. The first year on Mirena was magical!! I did not get my period for an entire year! I probably only spotted but very very light. To this day I do not get bad cramps that I could not handle, as opposed to before I had my child where they were unbearable and I would even vomit. Overall I am very satisfied with this birth control and have recommended it to two of my cousins who are both also pleased with it. Oh and for sex drive, I do not know why some say that their sex drive is low because I think Mirena gives you more sex drive. But that is my experience and the experience of both of my cousin, one of which had a baby and the other has never had a baby.
I took it DEC 2013 and Have has it for 2 years now. In the beginning, It was a little uncomfortable with the cramps and spotting for a while. After I have intercourse, I bleed even to this day but mostly it happens after I have sex after or around my period. I don't really notice its there anymore, as for side effects I don't have any really. It freaks me out sometimes because I think its out of place but I check the threads just to make sure. my partner does feel the strings during intercourse but hasn't mentioned it in a long time so he must not notice it too much. Id recommend this to a girlfriend but would want her to do her own research on it first. Some girls bodies just plain out reject it and have all the side effects at the max and its understandable if some girls may want it removed. All I know is that it didnt make me gain any weight and I hardly notice it. As long as you go in for your annuals and check your threads monthly and you don't feel side effects after a month or two, Its worth it if you do not want a kid right now.
As a 21 year old who has never been pregnant, I was absolutely terrified to get Mirena after reading reviews. However my experience with Mirena has (so far) been excellent! :) I had taken Ortho Tri-Cyclen pills for over 5 years, but due to a recent job change was struggling to remember to take the pills on time, and decided that despite having a good experience with pills that I needed to switch to a method requiring less commitment from myself. As a young person just starting their career with no plans of a baby anytime soon, my doctor suggested something long term. Originally, I had planned to have Skyla inserted due to the smaller size, but was informed that Skyla is not yet available where I live. Prior to the insertion, I took 400mg of ibuprofen (only half the recommended dose). Insertion was relatively painless, I only felt a slight sensation of rectal pressure and a minor cramp when Mirena was inserted. I was also not given Cytotec prior to insertion, despite never being pregnant. The Mirena was also inserted mid-cycle due to my work schedule not being conducive to having it inserted during my period. Following insertion I experienced moderate to light bleeding w
I have had my Mirena for almost a year and I love it! The insertion was very painful and I did have mild cramps for the first 2 months but after that it is like I have no period at all.
I have had Mirena for 5 years. I just had the first one removed and a second one inserted on the same day. The removal was easy, didn't feel a thing. The insertion of the second one was not too bad, a little cramping during but nothing horrible. I spotted and cramped a little the rest of the day, but the next day was fine. As with any medication, everyone is going to react differently. To tell someone not to get it because you had a bad experience does not mean they will have the same side effects as you. I would recommend that you talk to your doctor and ask them questions and express any concerns you have with them before getting Mirena, it works for me and many other women.
I had my mirena inserted on the 27th of January 2015 as I couldn't be on the depo because of my mood swings, I have received the most excurating pains my cramps are almost like contractions I am bleeding months on end and there is weird flesh like clumps coming out which I have never had before and I am 21, they don't look like your normal blood clot that's for sure. no one informed me of the bad side effects and at one point two doctors couldn't find it including the one who placed it in and I had to get an ultrasound, I am now having it removed after just under 7 months because I cannot take the pains and excessive bleeding. Cannot wait until tomorrow and I am praying I won't need surgery to remove it!!!
I have two bleeding disorders, leading me to go on contraceptives from a young age to control bleeding rather than birth control. After years of being on the pill, I had the discussion with my PCP regarding alternative options and she brought up Mirena. I was 22 when I had it placed and never had been pregnant, making the placement less than desirable, but tolerable and controlled with Ibuprofen (taken before the placement and for a couple days following). I am very happy with my experience with Mirena to this point, I do not have any bleeding for over a year now- except for spotting the few weeks after placement. It feels good to know that I do not have to worry about bleeding or pregnancy now that I am in a serious relationship. I am glad I trusted my PCP in this decision, and I hope for continued excellent results, then eventual removal and a planned pregnancy!
I have been using Mirena for 5 years. My first time 3 years and over 2 years this time. I have decided to remove it due to the fact I may be experiencing early menopause and do not want to interfere with it. Overall I loved it for the reasons I had it. I had 3 children and was happy. I didn't want to tie my tubes, but wanted to be protected. I hate having to take a pill on a schedule (many years of not complying well), hate sots and the arm inserts freak me out. Lately I have noticed more spotting after sex and some weight gain, but again not sure if it related to early menopause. I will be removing it in the next 2 weeks. Thank you Mirena for keeping my family at a manageable number when I needed it.
Terrible experience! I spotted and/or bled for the entire 5 months I had it. My hair started falling out and continues to even since I had it removed 2 months ago. It gave me debilitating joint and muscle pain which thankfully went away almost immediately after removal. I would NEVER recommend this for anyone!
I've had my Mirena for about a year now and love it. The only problems I've had with it were the insertion and the occasional cramping and dizziness. The insertion was horrible for me, I am not going to lie. My doctor was awesome but I was very nervous when I was getting it. Beforehand I took 400 mg of ibuprofen about 30 minutes before going in and once I was in the stirrups I was scared. The insertion was very quick, she opened me up, and used a clamp (I'm not sure what it was called) to move my cervix straight to put the Mirena in. Once it was in the clamp was stuck on my cervix which took a little extra time (afterwords she told me that has never happened with her in the whole time she's been doing insertions) to get off. It was rather painful but it was quick. Then it was over! I put back on my clothes and as I was leaving I felt woozy. I fainted in the waiting room as I was about to leave! I had terrible cramps for about 2 weeks after and then those stopped. I still sometimes get cramps and bleeding (very rarely). My boyfriend said he used to be able to feel the strings but not anymore as they have softened. The pros for sure out weight the cons. No period, no babies versus cr
I just got the Mirena on July 1, but so far I absolutely love it. Besides some spotting here and there, I have not had any side effects. Hopefully this route of birth control remains effective.
I've had it for 4 weeks exactly, so for long terms I'm not sure. And I'm hoping after a couple of months the side effects go away! The insertion was pretty painful, it goes in 3 cramps the 3rd being the worse. After they're finished with the insertion the cramping is relieved almost immediately. For me, I had pretty horrible cramps in my lower back for the rest of the night and the following day. I was cramping every day and now am probably cramping every other day or every couple of days, it just depends. The WORST part about it, is that I have been spotting close to every day since then. It's like a brown discharge which is worse and better every other day so I can't tell if it's getting better or note. Another part is that almost every time after sex, I bleed. I'm not sure why. My boobs are definitely sore, but only when my man gets a little carried away. Most of the time I can't tell. Last thing, I have tried two different types of the pill and they both made my face break out like crazy and I gained minimum 30 pounds when on them. So far this hasn't happened at all with the Mirena.
I just had my Mirena inserted 4 days ago, so I can't speak to the long-term effects upon my body, but I wanted to share my experience with the insertion process. First of all, go to an experienced OB-GYN. I am 24 years old and have never been pregnant, which can make the process a little more difficult because the cervix does't open as easily. I first went to my family medicine doctor, who spent about 5 (rather uncomfortable) minutes trying to open my cervix before finally giving up and sending me to a more-experienced OB-GYN. I visited the OB-GYN a few days later and had the Mirena inserted without a hitch. The OB-GYN first did an ultrasound to figure out how my uterus was tipped and take some rough measurements (which my family doctor didn't do). He then sprayed an antiseptic on the cervix opening, injected a numbing agent (the injection didn't hurt at all), used some sort of tool to gradually dilate my cervix, and then inserted the Mirena. In terms of pain, I was expecting way worse -- all in all, it was probably less than a minute of uncomfortable pain. It was rather painful once my cervix had been dialated enough to insert it (but that only lasted about 30 seconds), and the ac
I have 2 children and decided to try the mirena... insertion was extremely painful. |I had two csections so that may have contributed. i cramped for a week straight with no breaks and bled for 6 months straight after inserted. I had black out spells massive migranes severe cramping painful intercourse absolutely no interest in sex i have now had it for almost 2 years after going to try to have it removed many times and they couldnt find it i go for an ultrasound and they say its in place but i go back and they cant get it out..... i have had periods the entire time ive had it sometimes 3 weeks out of the month im still in severe pain from this thing and will be going to the er to try to have them remove it since clearly my family doctor is no help with this matter i would never reccomend this device to anyone yes its different for everyone but i would never get it again!!!!
I have had the mirena 3 times the first after my first child had it for 3 years no periods, no cramps, no bloating. Worked perfectly. Second time it was placed incorrectly I had light, short periods and mild cramping. Gained a lot of weight and depressed. I got pregnant and (then had it removed)and lost that baby and another after it was removed. I believe un related... who knows.. 3rd time was just recently after my third child was born, and so far so good no problems and seems wonderful. I'm a fan. I would still recommend it.
I am 21 years old. I have 1 child. I have had Mirena for 4 years. The insertion was easy somewhat discomforting but not bad at all. My periods have been lighter but I usually have cramps for a week before my period starts. I have been having constant cramping and I believe it's due to Mirena so I may be getting it removed. But it everyone is different so I think it's perfect if you care to get a shot or remember to take a pill.
Insertion was painless for me, but Dr. put me on some pretty hefty drugs beforehand. I had very little cramping afterwards. I've had it for about ten months now, and have had some minor issues with it. I'll get cramping right before I start to spot (so at least I have warning) and spotting can sometimes last a week...that will sometimes turn into a full blown period (that lasts a week) then turns back into spotting for a couple days. I had unusually long periods before (5-8 days) but now it's worse. At least for the most part, the periods are very light and I can just stick with a panty liner. I've definitely noticed a lowering of my sex-drive. I've also noticed light bleeding after intercourse. I've put on an extra ten pounds since insertion. Acne breakouts seem to happen more frequently and I seem to be much more prone to emotional instability....much like the whole reason I switched from taking the pill in the first place. Not having to remember to take a pill though, is much more convenient, and the lighter periods (though longer lasting) are a bonus.
I'm 24, never had a child, and am in a long term monogamous relationship. I have a lot of friends and family that love their IUDs and I was drawn to it because its a low hormone almost infallible option. I thought it would be great to deal with it once every 5 years (or 3 for skyla). Unfortunately, this device just didn't work for me. I really really wanted to and stuck with the Mirena from October 2014 to May 2015 before having it exchanged for a Skyla (smaller 3 year version) but had that removed in late June 2015... Reasons: I had BAD bad cramping. I haven't had bad cramps since I was in high school, but these were more like apocalyptic cramps. I threw up at work because of them, I couldn't form sentences. I routinely took doctor prescribed muscle relaxers for the issue. I was hoping to ride it out, but it just didn't stop, and it was impacting my performance professionally, socially, and intimately. Solution there: as soon as I had the second IUD removed, my cramps stopped within 2 hours. Other negatives: My boyfriend is not circumcised, and he could feel the strings all the time, even when they were the appropriate length (something to keep in mind due to that
Like they say every woman is different. I was on depot provers before getting the Mirena inserted, so I did not have a period. I have 2 children with my last being born November 2014. I guess it really depends on your pain tolerance. I had my exam done first and then Mirena placed all at once. The process was very quick and simple. I heard a click and then felt a pinch and slight cramps. Nothing like what other woman experienced. The mild cramping lasted a while that day but nothing ibuprofen couldn't fix. I did spot a little but nothing a pantyliner couldn't take. So for my experience I can say SO FAR I LOVE IT! I love the fact I won't have any more children for the next 5 YEARS. Well worth whatever pain you would experience for that confidence.
So I never bothered reading the reviews before going in today to get my mirena in. My doctor said it'd be just like bad cramps. Well I was one of the few that had a VERY bad reaction. It was excruciating pain during insertion. To the point where when she was finished (or I thought she was) I told her to take it all out. Now. So she did. Then I almost passed out and my blood pressure spiked. I had to lay there in the doctors office for almost two hours, and my doctor insisted on calling me an ambulance to go to the hospital. I refused (with the reassurance and help of the nurse) and ended up being taken home by my boyfriend.That was over 6 hours ago and I'm still in excruciating pain. Come morning, if I'm still like this I have been advised to go to the ER. Let me remind you I was a rare case. But I will never get this again.
May of 2016 will be 5 years I had the mirena in. I thought I share my review since I only see women that's had it in for less than a year. Having it inserted felt like the worst pain ever. I'm almost at my 5 year mark and I still have a monthly cycle. My monthly cycle is no longer 5 days when I was just on a pill. Sometimes I have heavy flow for 3 days and spot for 6. Another cycle May last for two weeks. Breast are sore even when I'm not on my cycle. Ob/gyn states this is normal with the mirena. Those are my only issues with this drug. Overall great for birth control.
I had my mirena inserted 2 days ago now. I had done little research before I had it put in. Insertion felt like a really bad period cramp but it was very short and my gynecologist talked me through it and explained everything she was doing. Only last night did I see about all of the horror stories. This is making me nervous but for me so far so good. I didn't cramp at all the rest of the day after insertion and I had it inserted towards the end of my period. I have only spotted just because it is the end of my period. I have yet to experience any side effects but I am just nervous just reading about what others have said.
Ive had the Mirena in for exactly 20 days. The insertion was very painful. I dont have any kids but I have endometriosis and paratubal cysts that rupture whenever they feel like it. Ive already had a laparoscopy to remove some cysts. I am still on my first period after the insertion. Yes, its been 20 days of steady heavy to regular flow. The first week after insertion was horrible. I cramped so bad I was sent home from work. I could barely stand up. Im hoping that my period ends soon and the cramping as well. Its been nice not taking a pill every day.
After spending wayyyy to much time reading user reviews of Mirena online ( one horror story after another ) I went to my doc the day I was getting it done completely petrified wondering would those horror stories happen to me as well ... I promised myself if it wasnt half as bad as what I read I would leave a review. The insertion was very painful for me ( even if I had two kids ) but it was quick and as soon as it was over the pain was gone. I had a bit of cramping the next day, nothing that Advil could help fix. A bit of spotting the next few days but thats it! I use to have crazy heavy periods, my Iron was down to super low , my first period after getting .mirena was a joke! Barely had anything! Im now in my second period and my bleeding is so little I can manage with just a liner! I'm seriously loving the Mirena! It was very much worth it!
I had my 1st child in November 2014 and got Mirena January 2015. I spotted for the 1st month and a half. I've had cramping, no sex drive, lack if energy, acne, hair itching, and gained 20 pounds in 4 months. I finally got Mirena removed today 6/17/2015 and I already feel better. No cramps I've been able to work from 5 am to 130 go to the gym, go shopping, and play with my baby without fatigue. The RN was giving me a hard time and stating my research is wrong and Mirena doesn't make women gain weight due to such low hormones but I told her everyone's body is different, and this was not the right birth control for me. I told her even all my coworkers that have it right now are experiencing the same issues so what does that tell you? She acted like she had an attitude because she couldn't talk me out of removing it, but I don't care it's my body my choice. I hope that this helps someone. If this is what it costs to not have a period I'd rather have mines!
I got the Mirena June of 2014. I may be one of the few but I have had a bad experience with it. Since I had it inserted I have experienced spotting for a few days followed by a heavy flow for a few then spotting this last about 2 weeks. During the 2 weeks I get horrible cramps that make me feel like something is clawing it's way out of my body. I kept telling myself it can take 3 to 6 months. At 6 months I called the dr they told me cramping was normal. My breast have become extremely tender and hurt to even wear a bra and my sex drive is very low. I go weeks without even wanting to have sex which is very unusal and my fiance doesn't like it either. Today was my 1 year check up and my new doctor told me that I need to have the Mirena out that having cramps and periods like I have is not normal.
I have only had the mirena for 5 days and my experience has been mostly positive so far. I read all the reviews before going to my appointment and completely freaked myself out because of them. The insertion was incredibly painful - the dr said I had a small uterus and that is why it was so painful. But, that only lasted about 5 minutes then I was on my way home. Do NOT plan anything the day you have it inserted. You need to couch it up with netflix, a hot pack, and all the ibuprofen. I resumed my normal activities on day 2, although was still in quite a lot of pain managed by heat packs and ibuprofen. On day 4, I worked out for the first time and surprisingly it relieved some of my pain. On day 5, I am still experiencing some cramping and am wearing thermacare heat wraps under my clothes (get these!). I am 27 and never had kids. I had the IUD inserted on day 3 of my period.
Maybe I'm the random person, but I LOVE my mirena. I had my son in April 2014, and had mirena inserted in June of 2014 - 6 weeks post partum. Like everyone, i was uncomfortable during insertion and experienced cramps for a few days after. I had off and on light spotting for about a month, but it wasn't anything unmanageable. In the last year I've had zero problems. No weight gain, no menstrual issues (I barely even have one - light spotting two or three days a month), no change in appetite or sex drive, either. I have my normal hormonal acne breakout during my cycle still, but that's nothing new. It's actually improved slightly. I know everything is different for everyone, but this has been my favorite method. Prior to Mirena I had been on pretty much every brand of pills with basically every side effect. I tried the ring, but was never physically comfortable. I tried the patch but was allergic to the adhesive. I went off birth control all together to get pregnant, but decided while pregnant i would never go back to pills again.
I decided to try the mirena after a year of very bad experiences with taking birth control pills and my OBGYN recommended it. I am 29 and have no children. I had hoped it would be easier and more consistent. Unfortunately I experienced extremely painful cramps with shooting pain up my back about 2-4 days a week! I was also bleeding and spotting on those days which was very inconvenient. I was constantly thinking that it must have been out of place or that something was wrong since I had never experienced cramps like this before. Even sex became painful, if I ever was feeling up to it. I have been with my boyfriend for two years, so this was also unusual. I started having hormonal breakouts on my face and chest and gained about 5lbs. With all of these bad symptoms I decided to get it checked by my doctor. She said "that everything seemed normal" although I felt anything but! Not even two weeks after having my check up, my Mirena came out on its own. Obviously my body rejected it, and with good reason! I would never get it put back in, the pain and risks are NOT worth it. In total I had my Mirena for only 3 months. I will be moving on to non-hormonal, less invasive methods of bir
I had my Mirena implanted today and thought I would share my experience while it is fresh in my mind. Like everyone else, I had read horror stories about insertion. I am 33 years old and have never had children. I took medicine the night before to dilate my cervix as prescribed by my doctor. The procedure was very quick, but it was painful for me. My doctor told me to expect 3 "cramps" while inserting. She told me when each one was starting and they were like very bad period cramps. The last one was the worst. For the rest of the day I've had cramps but they have lessened. I have also been taking ibuprofen and that has helped I think. Overall, I would do it again if it turns out to be a good substitute for birth control pills. The insertion wasn't pleasant, but it's not a reason not to give it a try. You can do it!
I have had Mirena for a couple of weeks now, so can't really speak to the side effects or reduction in my periods yet, but thought I'd post about the insertion. I had the Paraguard IUD twice, between a couple of my pregnancies, and was happy with it. So far I'm happy with Mirena, too. The insertion hurt, but I've had 3 kids, so it was relatively speaking not so bad. It lasted about 5 seconds, so it is bearable. Actually, the transvaginal ultrasound that the doctor required for checking placement took a heck of a lot longer and caused me more discomfort. I would never do anesthesia or anything like that like some people have talked about. I don't feel it in, my husband has never felt it, and so far so good.
I had it out in went right back to work the same day I stop having periods that same month had no trouble one month later I came out with a dark spot on my face read that it could be cause from it it's been 5 yrs besides that I love it !
I have been on Mirena since Jan 2015. I spot or bleed three weeks a month. Had horrible cramp and heavy bleeding prior to using Mirena. That cramping and heavy bleeding has stopped, however spotting and lite bleeding for three months was not what I was expecting. I am going to try for 5 more months to see if it will eventually go away.
I was on mirina for just over a year. I started experiencing monthly pain, in which my doctor explained was most likely ovulation.. Turns out it was slowly expelling because I've never had a child. Long story short, I got pregnant, found out at 10 weeks with an under developed baby and had to terminate my pregnancy due to severe risks from the placement and hormones. I'm sure it is great for some people. But trust your body. If you have pain, get an ultrasound and make sure it is in the right place.. Especially if you've never had kids. . Really disappointed in this
I got Mirena inserted yesterday and so far so good. I was very nervous before my appointment but decided against getting numbed because the idea of getting a shot up there made me even more nervous. The actual insertion lasted only a second with bad cramps, but nothing like the horror stories I've read. Afterwards I felt fine. Very minor to no cramps at all so far. I've had no babies (I'm only 18) and I did take the misoprostol prescribed to me to soften my cervix. So far, I would definitely recommend!
When I was about to get my Mirena placed, I was up all night reading horror review after horror review. I was generally nervous, but after reading some of the side effects I knew what could happen to me days or weeks afterwards. I got the Mirena placed and was under anesthesia because they offered it and it was covered anyways. After coming out of the anesthesia, I felt perfectly fine and did not even remember that they had shoved something up my lady parts. I came home and took a nap due to the narcotic in the anesthesia and woke up about two hours later. I was fine the whole day, with the only side effect being itchy around my body(from the anesthesia again). Since I was under the anesthesia, I did not feel anything when they placed it, which I was glad because I had read that it is excruciating. Still I have no side effects whatsoever even though I have only had it a little while. I love this option and if anyone is getting it and has the option of anesthesia, get it :)
I had my Mirena for 5 years and just got it then out (getting a new one inserted in 2 weeks.) I got this after my son was born, because the pill didn't work for me. Insertion and removal weren't too bad. Hurt a little, almost like a pinch in the inside, a little uncomfortable, but nothing unbearable. Worked well to stop pregnancy, stop my period, and the side effects weren't too terrible. The only major side effect was the crazy amount of hormonal changes I experienced during the last 2 months of my 5 years. Mood swings of a crazy person. But months out of 5 years isn't so bad. Best birth control in my opinion.
I tried Mirena in hopes of controlling very heavy periods due to fibroids and peri menopause. My doctor encouraged me to try Mirena, in the hopes that my periods would eventually "go away" and would take me through to menopause. (I didn't need it for bc as my husband has a vasectomy) I had the mirena put in in January 2015. Insertion wasn't bad- quick cramping for a moment (I've had two children) but nothing unbearable at all. I had cramping for the first few days, but was manageable with ibuprofen. I started spotting almost immediately, and it never stopped. i expected to have irregular bleeding for the first 6 months, I did NOT expect to bleed every.single.day. I would be spotting, then have terrible pms (crying, rage, I hate everyone) then have a period, then back to spotting again. Eventually it stopped- Woo hoo! I thought, but within 4 days, another period then spotting again. I think I had a total of 7 days (over a 4 month span) where I wasn't bleeding or spotting. Needless to say, this put a huge damper on fun time with my husband. Oh, and the fact that the strings poked the hell out of him (they never softened or curled around the cervix) basically ruined our sex life.
I had my Mirena inserted in July 2012. Have not had any issues with it, and didn't feel anything when it was inserted. I forget I have it sometimes. Had horrible experiences with pills, have not had any side effects at all with Mirena. I'm glad I chose it!
I had mirena for 5 months and im 20 years with no kids. Worst decision ever!!the inseration was painful. i got my period a day later and it lasted 3 weeks. i had to take special medications to stop my period. I had my period for more than a week usually. It was horrible. I had mood swing and i gained around 5kg. My boyfriend could feel the strings at one point.horrible experience
After reading review after review, I finally opted for Mirena. My BC pills were not working anymore and I belived it to be my last option. I was terrified of the horror stories I've read. I just got it placed yesterday, on the third day of my period. I won't lie, it was uncomfortable. I also have never had kids- or been pregnant for that matter. Apparently the pain is worse if you've never had a baby. The pain level does vary from person to person. My best friend said it felt like a pap, another friend told me it was like a colposcopy. It was, for lack of a better phrase, very crampy. Think of the most intense menstrual cramp you've ever had- that's how mine felt. The good news is that the sharpest pain only lasted about 6 seconds. It felt like I had normal menstrual cramps for the rest of the day. A heating pad was my savior. I had pretty heavy bleeding for the rest of the day. Today is the day after insertion. I have almost no bleeding and woke up with mild cramps, but they subsided by the afternoon. I can't tell you much about side effects or anything else as this was just placed yesterday. I'm glad I didn't listen to the horror stories and went ahead with it.
I had Mirena inserted 2 days ago, I am 7 weeks postpartum. I was nervous when I saw the instruments used, but I honestly felt nothing (cramps or pain) (was not on period either). Afterwards I had spotting from the instrument used to grab the cervix for about 5 hours, now no more bleeding!
I had my mirena inserted in March, about 8 weeks postpartum from baby #3. I was extremely nervous to get the mirena because not many reviews are good. The insertion wasn't bad, my Dr was very gently and explained everything as it was happening to I wouldn't be surprised. I bled for about two weeks, nothing heavy but more than a panty liner would take. After the bleeding subdued, I'd become crampy and start to spot. The cramping is TERRIBLE. Sometimes I could barely move or talk while I was cramping, but, it only lasted maybe an hour each time and didn't happen every day. As time goes on the cramping is becoming less frequent, less painful and the spotting is down almost to none. I had low sex drive before but its been a bit lower since getting it. Hubby can feel the strings but says it doesn't bother him, I could get them cut but he said it's not an issue. No weight gain and I believe my mood has been normal. If it continues like this for the rest of my five years I will be golden. As of right now, this has been an excellent choice in birth control.
I got my Mirena on the 1st of May. I took an ibuprofen 800 in the car on the way there, probably should have taken it before that but with a 4 year old I just forgot. Insertion hurt, I have had a natural birth so nothing compared to that but definitely the worst pain I've had since then. Measuring the uterus hurt more than anything but I was perfectly fine after insertion. So far I love it! Light spotting but nothing I would need a pad for. Love not having to worry about birth control! My husband says in certain positions he can feel it which was my biggest worry, but its not a turn off or something he can't handle. Hoping for a great 5 years :)
I was a really nervous about getting merina. I read a lot of the reviews. I finally got it done January 2015. I totally recommend taking pain meds before. I really hurt getting iT placed. I went back to work. I would tell you to make sure you have nothing planned for the day. I was crampping really bad about an hour and a half later. But took more meds and helped tons. I totally loved that I have not had a single period since getting it done. I totally recommend!!!! I wish I would have gotten this done a long time ago!
I just got mine today. I can only share day ones experience. My gynecologist is 15 years experienced. I'm 19 years old with no child so they had to check the position of my uterus and cervix to see if it would fit. Her and the nurse talked to me as it was being done which got my mind off it until the pain and discomfort started. I had already expected it.. So I'm not surprised. On the scale of 10 the most pain I felt was like a 9 :/ . It's a quick procedure though so after controlling my breathing I was done in no time. She prescribed ibuprofen which I had taken before. It's day 3 of my period so I have no cramps. Light bleeding. Nothing major. I feel fine. As of right now. I would recommend.
I had almost all the horrible side effects you could have. I've had mine for 5 months and am getting it removed next week. Hair loss (in handfuls), mood swings, low sex drive, nausea, night sweats, awful acne despite being on acne washes, headaches and irritability. Thank God this is getting removed next week. Hate it
Acne break out mood swings itchy dry scalp spotting for the last two months and I've had it inserted after my delivery 5 months ago thinking about getting it removed and trying something else
I had Mirena placed at my 6 week checkup and the side effects began right away. My face is so oily that I have to wash it and reapply makeup on my lunch breaks. I'm bloated, moody, I have angry outbursts and my hair is falling out. I have an appointment to have it removed immediately.
I just had mine put in today and I was beyond terrified because I normally have horrible experiences just with a pap smear. I was SO RELIEVED that this was so quick, painless, and over in no time. My doctor did prescribe me some Valium before hand to help me relax because he has dealt with me over the years for annual exams, and knows I don't do well with them. I took 800mg ibuprofen before hand, and he used a benzocaine spray to numb the cervix before he started. This was easier than any pap smear, very short term pain, and I was up and walking right away. I'm home now with a heating pad on my abdomin, and to take some more ibuprofen, but I have a feeling I'll be up and back to normal in no time! In so glad I finally convinced myself to do this :)
I had the Mirena in for 5 years and LOVED it! The putting in process feels like you are being stabbed in the uterus. OUCH!! But within 3 months I was period free for the 5 years minus a little spotting now and then. I had "time of the month" mood swings sometimes but nothing bad. I did, however, have two ovarian cysts that through ultrasound were detected to be little and both went away on their own. After year two I couldn't feel the strings anymore. The taking out process was harder for me but I do not have any children so my cervix was really small. All in all I plan on getting another one put in as soon as we have a baby.
I chose Mirena because The Pill became too expensive to buy every month. I was happy to find out my insurance paid for 100% of the costs! I only cramped for about two weeks after, and those were very mild, but I don't have a history of cramps either. I do not have a period anymore (which is great for saving $ on tampons!) although I do still have some symptoms of PMS each month. The only downside I have to say about it is that because the IUD doesn't have the same hormones as The Pill, my acne isn't being regulated like it was before, but it's definitely not unmanageable.
Extremely painful insertion. side effects: I am basically PMSing ALL THE TIME. breast tenderness, cramps, extreme mood swings, and bleeding two weeks out of the month. Worst of all, the strings fell out within the first month of use. I have to get a hysteroscopy: a procedure done in the operating room under anesthesia. cost: ridiculous: I have been charged a $1000 so far and I have not done the procedure yet.
I'm a mom of 4 by c-section! I have the worst periods, very heavy bleeding and large blood clots. I wanted something to help with all this. So I went to Planned Parenthood to have Mirena inserted. I was so scared by what I read I almost changed my mind. It was like a very uncomfortable pap smear, when they measure your uterus it is a little painful, not at all like contractions. After 4 c-sections this was a walk in the park. I bled a very little and had some minor cramping. Day 3 so far so good!
I was absolutely terrified yesterday going in to get my Mirena. I had read all these negative reviews but saw where the majority of reviews the women had great outcomes with Mirena so I was hopeful I would do great. Boy was I wrong. The doctor could not insert the IUD because he said I had a hard cervix and that the IUD had bent and wasn't useable any longer. This was after 10 minutes of excruciating pain of the doctor trying to implant it. I had severe cramping and burning pains. I got diaphoretic, flushed, and blacked out for a moment. Next thing I knew the nurses had me upright putting water on my face. It was awful. I have been a nurse for over 8 years so I tried to bear with it but this insertion or attempt to insertion was just as bad or worse as other women have described. So I do not recommend this just in case the next person could possibly experience the pain I did.
I am 38 years old and have had Mirena for one year. I have zero side effects - no weight gain, mood swings or skin problems. I love not having to worry about contraception for five years. The only downside is that it's painful when it's inserted, but the two minutes of pain is worth it.
I have never given birth before(I am 20). I expiernced the worst pain of my life having this inserted. It was unlike any of the reviews I had read prior. My uterus according to my doc my uterus was just too small, so this is probably why. That is the only reason I would avoid telling people to use mirena as their birth control. Otherwise within a day I felt great and back to normal and have not expelled it yet. Loving my mirena now but will never get another due to the initial pain. If you are young, be prepared for the absolute worst you may be surprised.
It's my 2nd time having Mirena & I've had two very different experiences. 1st time I had it was six wks after having my son. It was inserted fine, mild cramping and tiny bit of blood. From then on I had no symptoms and no periods for 5 years. I never felt it inside me. I had very mild brown spotting on occasion. I loved it. Now It's been about 3 years and I decided to go back to Mirena. First off the insertion hurt something terrible. I threw up numerous times in the 24 hrs after having it inserted. Finally that subsided. Now it's been about 6-7 months and my periods are very light but last at least a week or more (w/o mirena it was 3 days). Last week had my period and it left only to return again last night during sex. The bf has complained about getting "poked" nearly every time we have sex. I still feel some discomfort from the IUD. So i'm going back to the dr to have it looked at. I recommend Mirena but caution that every experience is different.
I am on my 2nd Mirena and I'm about to get my 3rd. I have had no problems with it at all. I don't even know it's there and I have absolutely no discomfort during intercourse or any other time. I have spotting once every couple of months and I have all the symptoms of a period without the need for sanitary napkins. I have had no weight gain, moodiness or anything of that nature. It's normal to have some cramping after it's inserted but that's about it. I've seen so many negative reviews and really wanted to give postive feedback. I have a good gynocologist and I am about to see if it's ok to get my 3rd. Going on 10 years with the Mirena and I have no complaints. I recommend it but advise that you consult with your gynocologist first.
Love my IUD. Just passed my first anniversary with it in! insertion: hurt like heck. i won't lie. i have never had a child, though, so that probably contributed. it's over quickly, and my doctor prescribed me vicodin that i took before and after the procedure. deathly cramps and nausea, had to sleep for three hours, then had milder cramps for about 4 days. currently: have spotting maybe every two or three months that requires a pantyliner, nothing more. no increased acne, no weight gain, no loss of hair or sex drive, nada. overall: a painful procedure but effortless afterwards and completely worth it for me. the only side effect i've had is cessation of periods which I believe is a BLESSING! :]
I had an IUD for 10 years with no problems. When I went to have it replaced the used the merena. It almost killed me. I felt like I was being poisoned. Each week I had a new symptom from back pain to migraines (which I have never had). I was retaining fluid, severe dizziness, blurred vision, high blood pressure and that's just a few. I insisted the doctor remove it. I have always been active, athletic and not overweight so there was no reason for my body to begin to fall apart. Symptoms starting a month after having it inserted. Listen to your body. Take it out if you are suffering. My body was back to normal within 3 months.
I have just had my second Mirena inserted today. Yes, it hurt like really bad cramps, but so worth it. For 5 years I have hardly had any periods or cramps. I have thrown out my pads and tampons in favor of panty liners for those occasional days every few months that I have some spotting. Every woman not wanting to have a baby in the next five years should have one of these.
I've had the mirena IUD since December and I absolutely love it. The insertion took a while for me because my cervix was being finicky but it wasn't that bad. Afterwards I had light spotting and I could feel the IUD inside me with slight cramping. After a couple weeks all the side effects went away and now I can't even tell its there. I love the freedom of not taking the pill. It truly is wonderful. I would recommend this to anyone who's not trying to get pregnant in the next five years.
I just had a Mirena inserted about 2 hours ago. The measuring of my uterus was the most painful part of the procedure. The dr stuck a measuring device into my uterus which caused severe cramping. I had intense cramps for about an hour afterwards. I took 600mg of Advil and feel fine now. My dr advised me to have it inserted while on my period, so the insertion would be easier. I think she was right. It may be helpful to mention that I had the noraplant, twice and had no problems. I hope I don't regret having the Mirena inserted. But so far, so good.
I am very happy with mirena. Insertion was very uncomfortable but also quick (less than 1 min). The first month was horrible - constant spotting, I was very thirsty and had "fuzzy brain" (dr. Said the last 2 were not related to mirena but I have doubts). However, after that first month it has been great. I have very light spotting about once a month, but no periods or associated symptoms. There are lots of bad reviews, but I would highly recommend mirena.
I got this in about a week ago, I switched from nuvaring to the mirena. So far so good. MAKE SURE YOU EAT BEFORE YOU GO IN TO GET IT! I did not and after it was done my body went threw t much and I started trowing up. (from so much ibprophin) The insert is like a bad cramp, not as bad as people portray it. I bleed the first 2 days but stopped now and havent got it back yet. I do get cramps every now and then. I wanted to wright a good review for all the bad ones that scare people away :p
I hated this the entire time I had it! Had it inserted in August and just had it taken out in late January. I bled the entire time and had cramps (which I am not used to having normally). The insertion was miserable pain like I have never felt! I would never recommend this to anyone!
i'm 28 and today i had my mirena insterted. i do not have any children. just wanted to say the insertion was a bit uncomfy due to lots of pressure and a slight pinch in a not so nice place. it has been eight hours and so far mild to moderate cramping and light bleeding this was my first iud. i cant feel it inside me at all if i had not had been there i would not know it is inside me. so it is not that big of a deal not sure how it will work out only time will tell but so far i think its wonderful.
Just had the second Mirena put in. The first one lasted five years (as I was told)and was painful when being inserted, even though it only took one or two minutes to insert. Five years and one month later, I started having cramps and breast tenderness. The doctor said this was because the hormones were no longer there and the IUD needed to be removed. Removal was much easier with no pain. Because I hit my deductible last year, I decided to have another Mirena put in. It was much less painful this time, which I think is because it was a different doctor putting it in. While having the Mirena, I have no cramps, bloating, breast tenderness, etc.
Just had the second Mirena put in. The first one lasted five years (as I was told)and was painful when being inserted, even though it only took one or two minutes to insert. Five years and one month later, I started having cramps and breast tenderness. The doctor said this was because the hormones were no longer there and the IUD needed to be removed. Removal was much easier with no pain. Because I hit my deductible last year, I decided to have another Mirena put in. It was much less painful this time, which I think is because it was a different doctor putting it in. While having the Mirena, I have no cramps, bloating, breast tenderness, etc.
I have had the Mirena for 4 years. Since I had my second child and had this inserted I have experienced global and significant pain not controlled with meds, lower back, upper back, neck ankles. My hair falls out in clumps. I cannot lose weight in fact I gain it despite attempts.(I am usually athletic and am an OT so I know how to work out).I have dramatic abdominal distension and pain, I look like i am 9 months prego. Chronic sprained ankles, fatigue, no sleep. I have zero sex drive and not can climax. I have been to 4 specialists who found nothing wrong with me. I have had depression anxiety nauseousness and vertigo for 4 years. I am curious, for those who had it removed did things return to normal? I did want to note, what works for some great doesn't guarantee it wont be a nightmare for another. I just wanted to post because I felt like I was going crazy and so did others. If u get it and have trouble just know the potentials. I have friends who love it with no problems.
Was fantastic at first. But started having problems within months of placement. I had a urterine pregnancy. And it caused me sevier pain. I would not recomend this to anyone. Now my husband and I want another baby but I am having problems conceiving. The ease of not having to worry about missing the pill/shot isn't worth the side effects! I had the iud for just over 2 years. It was completely covered by my insurance. But the worst bc I ever had.
I just had my Mirena taken out yesterday and I feel like this was the best thing I did! Mirena made me crazy! Yest infection, Bacterical Vaginosis, bloading, headaches, cramps, weight gain, dizziness, foggy thinking, anxioity and depression. i never experience anything like this until i had the Mirena put in. I'm going back to taking pills I have 3 childern and I am DONE! I want my regular vagina back!
I just had my Mirena IUD inserted today, I wanted to get a positive review about the insertion out there. I'm 21 & have been on Loestrin Fe for the past 5 months, & Sprintec for a year & a half before that. I have never had children or been pregnant. They prescribed me Misoprostal to take the night before to open up my cervix & I took 800mg Ibuprofen half an hour before the appointment. First she measured my cervix & then inserted the IUD. Both felt like bad period cramps, more uncomfortable than painful. I've had mild cramps throughout the day, nothing Ibuprofen can't fix. I have no idea if it will work or how my body will take it, but the insertion went smoothly.
I had the mirena for 5 years. Although I didn't have any complications or pregnancy scares I would not choose the mirena again. Insertion was extremely painly. Took 20 painful minutes! During the 5 years I did have a period. The first 6-9mo it was inconsistent but then after that I was getting it monthly but very light. Pre-mirena no cramps. With mirena lots of bloating, cramps during period. Removing mirena felt only slight pinch. Since mirena I am back on pill. I now have the worst periods. They last for 2 weeks every month. Very heavy, clotty with cramps during first 3-4 days I've had mirena out since Sept 2011. Initially I thought my body just needed time to readjust w/o mirena but now I'm thinking this might be a permanent side effect
I wanted to write a POSITIVE review for those out there considering Mirena, but are too scared based on all the horrible reviews out there. I am 21 years old, no kids. I got Mirena inserted yesterday! I'm not going to lie, it was probably the worst pain I've experienced in my life, BUT like many other women have said it only lasts for about a minute. My gyn even let me know that I would feel three cramps, the third being the worst, and she would tell me exactly when I would feel them. I was dizzy for about 15 minutes after the procedure, but this is a normal finding. I had moderate cramps for the next couple hours, but after that I was totally fine! Today, I have very mild cramps, and almost feel bloated like I'm on my period, but I'm sure that will decrease within the week. I HIGHLY recommend getting Mirena! The five minutes of pain if DEFINITELY worth not getting pregnant for five years! PLUS all together with insurance I paid $50 for the Mirena, and my $25 copay.
I got the Mirena at my 6 week appointment after having my first baby. My best friend recommended it because she loves having hers. I was so excited to have a birth control that I didn't have to think about, but so nervous to have it inserted. The insertion was not nearly as bad as I thought, in fact I have had pap smears that hurt more. I did bleed a little afterward and I some nausea that day. After that, I continued to have regular periods, but significantly lighter and shorter. Fastforward 10 months later: I have lower abdominal discomfort like I did during the beginning of pregnancy. I feel like I am about 3 months pregnant or I am about to start my period and am constipated, but that is not the case. I have a dull cramping sensation that makes me feel bloated and as if I am retaining water and there is no relief for it. I also can't feel the string that I am suppose to check. I have been so MOODY! I have been losing weight post baby, but at a freakishly slow rate.
Insertion was VERY uncomfortable but it was over quickly and I kind of expeted it. I spotted for 2 days, light flow. Cramping which I took 4 advils for. Now I'm on day 3 and I've forgotten all about the Mirena. I am not sure why all the negative reviews?? It's a hormone but it only effects your uterus. Not nearly as powerful of a hormone as BCP. I have slightly high bp and this has been a blessing. Heavy period tapered off within 2 days of insertion. If I have any negative effects in a month I will change my review but so far so good.
I have had the Mirena for almost two months, and honestly I love it...so far. I suffered from extremely long(I'm talking 9 days) and extremely heavy (soak an overnighter and a tampon in 2 hrs) periods. I tried taking the pill 2x,first I took it during the day with breakfast, by day 3 I was so sick at work I stopped taking it for a year. The 2nd time I took it at night..made me feel much better...then I started forgetting to take it. So now I'm at the mirena...it was uncomfortable during insertion but 4 motrins and I was at my desk in an hour. I did spot for a week ( it was brown eeeeewww) and then right after I went into a not as heavy but almost as long cycle (9days) but after it ended I have nothing...no cramps ...no spotting....no nothing....however I do notice some acne especially around my chin....so we will see how month 2 cycle goes...if I get one
24yo, childless. Inserted on Sept. 6th, two days before my regular period, I've had it for 5 weeks. Insertion was extremely painful and I passed out. Doctor said my uterus is very, very tiny. Heavy cramping for a week, left work early two of the days. Heavy bleeding for 9 days. Some cramping after sex. My partner can feel the strings 2 out of 5 times and it sometimes pokes him/is painful. My mood has stabilized and less acne. Was previously on Nuva Ring, which caused me to gain body fat in the lower abdominals (never had that problem on the pill). One of the reasons I got the IUD is because I do fitness competitions and model. So far, body fat has dropped, lost 4lbs, no mood swings, no headaches. Did have a period, after 4 weeks, a little heavy, bad bad bad cramps for two days prior and some acne on my back. Hopefully it will go away forever! :) One of my friends got it, and she fainted at her appt too. My hopes: period stops and the cramping goes away.
I had my first Mirena IUD inserted after my last child when I was 36 with no pain what so ever. Immediately my periods were lighter with no periods at all by month 3. After 5 years I needed a new one inserted so I made an appointment and my OB-GYN could not find my strings so I had to have an ultrasound to make sure my IUD was still in place in which it was, but unfortunately with no strings to pull I had to have a Hysteroscopy to have it removed. Several weeks later I had another Mirena implanted with minimal discomfort and have had the same results with no periods as the first Mirena. I now make sure I do a monthly check for the strings so when my 5 years is up I can have it removed easily. I have had zero side effects and would recommend it to anyone not wanting to take the pill or the shots.
I decided to get Mirena (Aug 2012) mostly because of my terrible painful periods. I have one grown child,I was on the pill for 18 years went off because I was a smoker at the time. Since quit but when I asked my Gyno about getting back on the pill she said no way since I'm an occasional smoker. I loved the pill but not worth risking a blood clot. So I thought Mirena would be a great choice since I am not having anymore children and don't have to deal with anything for 5 yrs. Insertion was really no biggie I took four Advil before the appt. It was like a really bad cramp that lasted about a minute or 2 then subsided quickly. Month 1 period was a little better cramping was better also. Month 2 even better less cramping than month 1. I am really hoping and can't wait for my period to eventually go away like they say it probably will. I recommend Mirena, for more than just birth control. Although my BF does say he can feel the strings.Maybe the Doc can cut them.
Had 2 surgeries this week due to the Mirena! I had it in for 2 months. I had a cyst, and worsening pelvic pain that was the worst I have ever felt. No one thought the pain was from the Mirena so I had a laparoscopy done and nothing was found. 4 days after that surgery, my Mirena strings were found to not be visible anymore. I wanted it out at that point anyways, because the pain continued. I ended up having a hysteroscopy to have it removed because it was lodged in my uterus. I'm exhausted from this week, but so happy that the pain is now gone.
Mirena is great ! ! ! I have had mines for four painless months and have had NO side effects ! Getting it inserted was a tad bit of pain but i promise you its worth it. Being able to have sex without worrying about conception lifts weight off of my shoulders. The Mirena has actually helped me a lots, my hair is constantly growing, nails too. I've lost 17 lbs and I am always energized ! I personally love this IUD that is why i was shocked to hear about the bad reviews. I would recommend this to ANY woman in America that need effective birth control.
Apart from the first 2 months of my body getting used to the Mirena, I have been very happy with this Birth Control and have now after 5 years had this Inserted for a further 5 years. Would Recommend
I haven't had my Mirena for as long as everyone else, but I have to say that so far everything is great! I am 22 with no kids, but I'm moving in with my long term boyfriend soon and don't want to have to constantly worry about being pregnant. I won't lie, insertion for me was horrible. The pain was pretty bad, but went away almost instantly after removal of all of the other stuff. I felt pretty bad for the rest of the day and cramped for the next few with a bit of VERY light spotting, but I haven't had any spotting in the last week and just have the occasional cramp. I have felt for the strings and it kinda freaks me out that I can feel them, but my boyfriend hasn't mentioned being able to feel them. All in all, it's much better than the pill that I was on and I'm happy with my Mirena so far!
I have the Mirena inserted for 2 1/2 years and it was simple to put in a little cramping afterwards. i dont really have my period and when i do its light spotting. I like not having to take a pill everyday or worry about getting pregnant again.
I am honestly surprised to hear the problems that othere people have had with mirena. I have had mine in for 3 1/2 years, I am 30 years old and have two children, do not wish to have anymore. Yes it was uncomfortable to have inserted, but that was over and done with quickly, and I did have some random bleeding for awhile, but after about 6 months my period stopped completely. I had issues with the pill with weight gain and side-effects, and none thus far with mirena. I reccommed it to people and plan on getting another one re-inserted the same day this one comes out! oh, and my insurance covered everything, I only had to pay my copay, and I had a credit at my dr's office, so I essentially got five years of free birth control!
I had the mirena inserted 9 months ago. I HATE IT!!! My issues range from back pain, cramping, weight gain but the most discouraging of all is that I bled for 6 months straight every singe day then it stopped. Three weeks later it started up again for two weeks then stopped and the following month I bled for 2 weeks straight again. So more or less for a devise that was suppose to stop my period all together I am now dealing with periods every month the last for two weeks now. I was going to have the devise pulled out until I found out it will cost me over $2000.00 to get my tubes tide. If a vasectomy for my husband is going to cost that much I will have to deal with all of the issues and keep the mirena, unfortunately cost does matter for my family.
just had mirena placed today and it hurt so bad. pain was really bad and almost passed out while they were placing it.broke out in a sweat and had to lay there afterwards before getting up.insurance didn't cover it so had to pay 1025.00 out of pocket today.I will never do this again.
PLEASE READ: I got my first Mirena when I was 17 years old, I'm going on 24 and on my second Mirena. First round of it, was amazing because I was young and not having periods was just all the rage for me! I'm bipolar, so on tons of prescriptions, and one of them I can't have the pill or patch, so I needed the insertable ones. So when I got my second round of the Mirena, I've had nothing but issues. Pain, cysts, moodswings, weight issues, most of all the pain. Definitely would NOT recommend even if it works for others, I would still be scared it would hurt them like it's hurting me. I'm fixing to take this out ASAP!! Mainly for the cysts, unbareable pain. Tons of the other symptoms like others on this review as well. Just not as frequent. It seems like a great solution if you have horrible periods, but keep looking, I will gladly go back to my horrible periods that last a couple days, than this pain that last consistantly for months on end & 2 surgerys. Not worth it, baby dolls!!
I have had numerous problems since having Mirena inserted. They include depression, anxiety, fatigue, ligament damage (leading to surgery), ankle pain, shoulder pain, neck pain, upper back pain, hair loss. I believe all the pain is related to ligaments. Read about progesterone and it's effect on ligaments. I now have a positive ANA test. I don't know if it's the progestin ( synthetic progesterone), the silicone(read about silicone side effects) or just the foreign object in my body. It's hard to not blame it when I was perfectly healthy before. I did like the loss of periods but it wasn't worth it. Good luck if you decide to try it. Many say they do fine but I don't think connections are made to the IUD for some problems. Bayer needs to make a longer list of side effects. I've found people all over with my same list. I just made the connection myself 11 days ago after 4 years of mirena. Had it removed yesterday with no problems.
I got Mirena in Feb. All I felt was a slight cramp when they put it in. The appt is nothing to worry about at all. I did have some spotting after but no lingering pain. When I first got Mirena, my partner did complain that he could feel the strings. However, after a month or so he couldn't feel them at all. I have now had Mirena for five months. I have had no weight gain ( I actually lost 15 lbs!). I do still have light spotting when my period usually comes. I highly recommend Mirena. It is the most cost effective and worry free form of birth control available. My only complaint is that after getting Mirena, I have noticed that I get migraine headaches around my period. I rarely got migraines before. By the way, I am a 28 year old mother of one. I got Mirena after two miscarriages within a year. We have decided to take a break form trying. Mirena seemed like the most effective and hassle free option.
I read tons of horror stories about Mirena being ridiculously painful when being inserted. This was the only birth control I would consider after trying pills a few times. After reading other stories, I got nervous and scared and almost cancelled my appointment. But instead I said what the heck, most people only write reviews after having a bad experience. So I went in yesterday, got it inserted, and barely felt a thing. I was so happy! I spotted for a few hours and that was it. No discomfort at all. I even went to work afterwards, and did my daily workout as well. No pain medicine needed. It's only been a day, so I will see how it goes. Also, the strings on the Mirena are more like sewing thread. The Paraguard strings are like fishing pole lines. I got to check both out before making my choice. Anyone considering it, don't be afraid. If you can handle a pap, you're good. Mirena Insertion is just slightly more action going on down there. Nothing to be afraid of!
I'm 20 years old, I've never been pregnant, and I've had the Mirena for eight days now. Insertion was painful for me, but definitely tolerable. I had uncomfortable cramping and light bleeding for one day. I was aware of it's presence and experienced light to no cramping and brown discharge (old blood) for the first 4 days. My strings are starting to move up toward the cervix. So far I haven't experienced bad symptoms. I've felt less moody, and slightly healthier over all. Everyone responds differently and my suggestion to someone thinking about getting Mirena is to take ibuprofen an hour beforehand, bring panty liners for after insertion and bring apple juice in case you feel faint. Everyone is different, so be aware of how well your body adapts to things. If you get bad symptoms from hormonal methods, try paraguard instead. Last but not least, reviews are written by people who usually have bad experiences. Don't be scared.
I had my first Mirena IUD placed in 2002. My gynecologist recommended it, because she thought it would help with the issues of pain and heavy bleeding I was suffering, due to uterine fibroids. Mirena worked VERY well for me, and I had another one placed in 2007. I just had that one removed 4 days ago. Overall, my experience with the MIrena IUD was positive. The pain I was suffering with fibroids stopped within the first week, and periods stopped after about 3 months. Spotting was rare. I went with my gut, and chose NOT to have a third Mirena placed because of a few things (reason for 3 star recommendation). The first thing happened with the first Mirena. The string did not easily release when placed. Doctor had to struggle a bit to get it to release. Six months after getting second Mirena, it moved up into the upper part of uterine cavity, and the string actually doubled up inside, and couldn't be felt. Mirena stayed in place. Removal uncomplicated, but not as quick as first time.
I have had Mirena for right at 5 years now. I was suppose to go next month to get it removed. I had a sharp pain on 6/16/2012. I went to the doctor and it was determined it was caused by Mirena and they decided to go ahead and take it out. When the doctor tried to pull it out it wouldnt come out. Now they are having to do an ultrasound to see how far it has grown into my Uterus wall to determine how they are going to proceed to remove it. I still had a normal period the whole 5 years and had very few problems till the last 6 months when I first started having cramping. Now I am terrified because one of the options i am facing is i may have to have everything removed depending on how far it has grown into my wall which could lead to me never having any more kids. They say this happens to only 1% of people but my sister in law also got the Mirana a few months before me and they had to surgically remove hers two months ago because it had grown into her Uterus wall.
I have had Mirena for 4 years. I have to have it removed next year. I am not in a place in life where I am ready to have kids so I am considering another. Comparing to birth control pills, I LOVE MIRENA!!!! I've lost weight, never have periods, mood swings, nothing! It was a little painful to get in but I have had no side effects. I would totally tell anyone to get it! Cost wise its about $700 (compared to pills about 2100 for the same time period). If you save for it for 5 years it would be $11.60 a month!
Had my mirena for 6 months, had nothing but problems and on 17th May 2012 I had it surgically removed under general anesthetic because it had perforated my uterus and was sitting in the right side of my pelvis.
Mirena, savagely ill-portrayed by many "horror stories" ranting and raving about horrible cramps and bleeding, moodiness, weight gain, ovarian cysts, etc. All these awful things are put on blast on the Internet when in reality such results are very untypical in most women who have Mirena inserted. I had mine inserted about a year and a half ago. I've never had a kid and I barely felt the insertion. I bled for about two weeks after insertion with virtually no cramping. Over the next few months I experienced some spotting, and by month six had no period, no cramps, no bloating, no spotting, no weight gain, no moodiness, no headaches, nothing. It felt amazing, going from having periods with such heavy bleeding and cramps that caused me to vomit so much I often landed in the hospital due to dehydration, to nothing. Nothing at all. Some women will react badly in general to hormonal birth control methods, but I assure you my experience is more typical than the nightmares you'll read about.
I had the mirena in for 2 1/2 years. I started gaining weight and couldnt lose it. i gotten terrible acne. I started to get facial hair and losing the hair on my head. I had mood swing that were not like me at all. I have been off it for 6 months now and still havent gotten my period and i am worried. My dont gave me PT tests and im not pregnant. So she put me on these pills that are suppose to help me get it back but no luck. now later this week i have to go back for alot of tests. I am scared and worried, i have a 4 yr old son and would like to have more but who knows. I do not recommend this birth control at all!!!
I would not recommend this birth control at all. I do realize that my experience may not be the norm, but I have had monthly pain, super clotted periods with unpredictability, total change of mood (I haven't felt myself since I've had it in...over a year). I didn't realize this was what the problem was until I looked up the side effects of this drug. I'm getting it removed as soon as I can. On a side note...it works as birth control, it just has come at a price for me.
I am on my second mirena and absolutely love it. It's painful to put in but the second it's in, there's nothing. I spotted the first day it was in both times but never had a single period again. The first time, I had it for 3 4 years and decided to have it removed to start trying for a baby. I got pregnant 3 months later and got another once our daughter was born. I love love love it. this site lists it as 300 monthly but it'a a one time cost and lasts 5 years!
So great...get it put in at the dr's office, and don't think about it again for 5 years.
i am on my 2nd Mirena and i do highly recommend it to my friends regularly. i had my first one inserted at my 3 month check up after the birth of my 2nd child, i had my second one inserted about 18 months ago. At my age, after discussions with my health care providers, i chose this over sterilization due to risk vs. benefits and i don't regret it at all. There was some discomfort during insertion and a bit of cramping for a few hours afterwards - i took some ibuprofen beforehand and it worked out fine. i did spot daily for 3-4 months - very light and a bit annoying, but it didn't stop my activities at all. Now, a few days of spotting is all i experience most months - sometimes even less than that.
I love Mirena!I recommed it to everyone, all the time. Not only is it a safe and effective form of birth control, but it has also helped with my heavy periods and awful pms symptoms.Im on my second one so its been over 5 years for me. No weight gain no acne problems either like I had with the pill.
I have been using Mirena for 5 years now, have spotting to nothing menstruation for 1 day monthly and have really enjoyed using Mirena. I plan on taking out the old and bringing in the new Mirena soon for another 5!! Couldn't be better than this!! Love it!!
My doctor recommended Mirena be inserted at my 6 wk checkup after I had my first child. I also got my period back the day before my consultation, so she fit me in for that week because it makes for easier insertion to be on your menstrual cycle during the procedure. I read through the pamphlet she gave me and I was nervous about experiencing the possible side effects, and of course the procedure itself. I took a Tyenol 3 an hour before my appointment and no numbing shot was needed. It was over within two minutes, I felt the cramp from the insertion and a second cramp from her withdrawal, and I did experience very slight cramps for a few hours after, but it was nothing debilitating. I go back in a few weeks for a quick check to make sure it's still in place, but thus far I've had no complications and I would definitely recommend this treatment! It's a one time copay for the office visit and it can be removed whenever I choose, or I can have a new one replaced in 5 years. Love it!
I have had Mirena for 4 yrs. and 2 mos. after my second child was born and was very satisfied with it - until this past week-end. All of a sudden I had this sudden massive blood loss and passed a large blood clot. Talked to the doctor on the phone and she said to take a pregnancy test. One was "invalid" - took another one and it was positive. I went to the ER and the ultrasound showed I was 9 wks. along and you could also see the Mirena still in place on the monitor. I am 37 yrs. old and my husband and I were done having kids - so we thought. Previously I was on the pill for 12 yrs. without instance. I DO NOT RECOMMEND MIRENA!!!!!!
My experience has been totally positive. I've had Mirena put in 4 months ago. The insertion pain was very minimal- like a cramp. And the procedure was super quick- I was in and out in no time. Throughout the remainder of the day I had minor cramping, but nothing that a pamprin/motrin wouldn't relieve. After that I bleed on and off for about two weeks and also had minor cramping from time to time. Now I do not get my period at all. I have sometimes felt a very minor cramp during the time my period would normally come- but this is a small price to pay for not getting period. My partner has not noticed a difference either. Oh and I've never given birth before but my doctor said that did not matter. And I had no mood swings, weight gain, or any of the other side effects people talk about. Insurance paid for this treatment. I would recommend this to anyone!
i had mirena put in February of 2009 the insertion was a breeze very little cramping. however i had this inserted to reduce my heavy periods does not work next month will be a year and my periods is just as heavy as before. i also wanted something that i would not gained weight gained about thirthy pounds, exercise and dieting does not help been doing that has not help still gaining i am having it taken out.
Before I got the Mirena IUD, I read lots of reviews online and googled whatever I could. When you do this, all you find are bad reviews and lots of women who have had poor experiences with Mirena. What you have to consider, is the women who have good experiences, generally don't take the time to post. Which is exactly why I wanted to. I was almost scared into not getting my IUD. But, I went through with it, and it was the best decisions ever! I had no side effects, it was NOT painful, it was more like an uncomfortable pap smear for about 5 minutes tops, and then that was it. It's different for everyone, but for me, it's been amazing. I hardly get a period, have no emotional side effects, and it's more effective then getting my tubes tied. And I don't have to worry about a thing until I'm ready to have kids. What more could you ask for?
I have been on oral birth control, Depo shot, and Nuva Ring for almost 20 years, with the exception of when I was pregnant with my son. After that many years, I felt like I was forcing myself into premenopause. My GYN recommended Merina because I am a smoker and I have been on the other forms of birth control for so long. Insertion wasn't too bad. I had cramping that felt like contractions for a few minutes and felt lightheaded and a little nauseous for a little while afterward, but I was able to go right back to work. I had strong cramping that night, but it was relieved by ibuprofen. Now I have small cramping at times, but I am still bleeding very lightly. Otherwise, I have had no issues. It's only been 2 days, so we'll see what happens.
The pill was not good for me, and I wanted something long term. I had Mirena inserted 6 months after having my baby. I've only had it for a few days, but so far it is great! I was scared to get it after reading reviews...but it didn't hurt at all. I bled very little for 2 days afterward and thats all.
I made the mistake of reading reviews before getting mirena and was terrified. When I did get it inserted, it was incredibly painful but that is partially due to the fact that I did not receive proper instruction for getting ready ( I am 19 and have had no children so I needed to be dilated). It's been three months now and I am loving it. I have not gained weight (in fact, I have lost some), I do have some more acne then normal but the doctor said that this would subside and it has over the past few weeks. I do get some bad cramps but these are rare (that is after the first week). I don't get my period anymore after the first week I haven't even spotted and my boyfriend says he barley feels it during sex (it does not bother him) I love this birth control!
I received my mirena on Dec 2. Dec 11th my period came and it is now Christmas and its still here. Not pantyliner period but heavy. Insertion was super easy, I only experienced light cramping. However, the aggravation of this bleeding is driving me crazy! I am going to stick with it for the next 6 months.I don't have any other side affects, no cramping, acne, or weight gain so far. I wish there was something to stop the bleeding though. If anybody finds something to help with that let me know. Oh yes my partner feels it but its not uncomfortable and my libido is off the charts. (To no avail cuz of the bleeding LOL) Good luck ladies. Smooches Monique
Ive had mirena over 9 months. I absolutely hate it! My insurance said they was going to pay & then after the procedure was done i recieved a bill for 890.00! The pain I went through when it was inserted was absolutely miserable! My gyno didnt give me an option of being sedated or even numbed. It felt like i was having a reverse pregnancy. Like the baby was entering me instead of exiting lol. I have never had a kid, & he told me to take these pills 10 days before to soften my cervics up cause he said that would help the pain. YEAH RIGHT! I was about to cry the whole time. Now i have my period about 4 times a month,& i cramp like freaking crazyy! I just went back 2 weeks ago and he said he wanted to give it a full year. If i have to put up with this another 3 months i think im gonna die lol. But I hav e yet to get pregnant so thats one good thing about it, plus you dont have to worry about taking it everyday.make sure to ask to get numbed or sedated or you will be absolutely miserable!
I had taken oral bc for the past 2&1/2yrs &I would have a heavy period 3 wks out of a mo. I tried 5 different oral bcs &took them for mos &the problem wouldnt stop. so I stopped taking bc &my bf &I were using condoms for a few mos- I had a reg 4day period. We had a little bit of a scare &decided to talk to my gyn, she recomended Mirena. She had to dilate&measure my cervix &Im 20yrs old &have not had a child. When she entered my cervix it was painful, the pain lasted <10 secs so it was tolerable. After I had a bit of cramping, the cramps lasted <2 days. Since it was inserted, Ive had spotting every day, so I need to wear a panty liner, Ive had min cramping, &am not crazy emotional. My biggest problem is I developed a "diaper rash" from wearing a panty liner so often. As the wks progress, my spotting seems to become lighter. My bf cannot feel any strings during sex. do not be turned off by this form of bc just because people say its painful during insertion.
I still don't know if I would recommend this. I went to the doctor to get the iud mirena inserted and it was really painful. So just remember to take some kind of pain relife medicine. After mirena was inserted I started to bleed. It went away within two days. So two days of no bleeding, then on the third day i've been bleeding ever since, i'm going on three weeks now, and it doesn't look like its going away anytime soon, its very light but annoying. I really hope it stops soon or i'm going to get it removed my next doctor appointment. Good luck all!!!!
I have had the IUD in place for 6 months. The insertion was a little painful, afterwards I was a little dizzy and nauseaus so I suggest that someone is there to drive you home. The first month and a half or so i had moderate cramping and a little spotting. I was thinking about having it taken out but i put it off for a little bit. After two months the cramping went away. My periods are regular and I have some cramps only when i am on my cycle. Mirena is better than the pill or the ring or anything else. Just have it put in and don't worry about it for 5 years.
i had mirena inserted on 12-7-09 at 3pm. im 18 never been sexually active or had any kids and im using it for endometriosis. insertion was easy. i didnt need ANY kind of painkillers or numbing meds. they first give you a pelvic exam to check the position of the uterus, next they insert the spectulum then clamp your cervix(feels like a tight pinch) then they measure your uterus(you will have some cramping. feels like a period cramp) then they insert mirena and your all done. the whole procedure took 2-3 minutes. i had some slight cramping and mild bleeding(spotting) but when woke up the morning it was completely gone. i literally feel so much better and my endo symptoms are gone.(this is coming from a person who has did 3 types of treatment for endo in 1 year and NONE helped) im so happy i did it and i recommend it to anyone considering using this. thanks sabrina
I am almost at the end of my second year on Mirena and I hate it !!! It is sitting in my Uterus and all the doctors I have had look at me tell me it's fine where it is, just a little more invasive to retrieve it when I'm done. Well I'm done. I have 14 to 18 day periods every single month and has not let up since I recieved it. I have had horrible acne outbreaks and major migraines witch I had neither of before the Mirena. I got the Mirena because a close friend of mine loves hers, so I just may be different in reaction to these issues. Thank you for letting me share.
I got the Mirena Jan,09 and it is now Nov,09 I rated Marina as good birth control because I have been basicly unable to have a sex life do to bleeding, I bleed constaint for two weeks it's super light then the third week is crazy I really should buy shares in maxi pads. I find I have alot of cramping and head achs I think I need to get it removed I keep waiting thinking my body will adjust but its not happening I am disipointed that I am not seeing the same results as everyone ealse My friend has the Mirena and loves it. I have too have a pad in my panties at all times because I could soil my jeans or carry extra jeans every where I go. I also find I dont know my body anymore i cant read its signs i dont get back cramps or pimples or my old symptoms to know my period is coming it just always there and i feel drained all the time. If any one can sugest another birth control besides the pill or a tubel i would appreciate it.
I had my appointment 6 weeks after I had my daughter, but the night before did research, and decided not to go through with the mirena. I considered it yet again, and went through with it. The insertion part was scary I passed out on the table as my physician injected the lidocaine into my cervix, i was terrified, and alone. That was uncomfortable, but was fine short after. I later had to go to work (12 hour shift) feeling weak, and crampy. I bled for about 3 1/2 weeks, each day getting lighter, or coming and going. I have had it now a month, and my libido is up, mood is crazy, very irritable, just dont feel like myself. I have decided to weigh it out for at least 6 months to see how it goes. But just want to feel like myself again, but it is a convient type of birth control, and my boyfriend doesnt complain, just wishes my moods weren't so unpredictable.
I had my appointment 6 weeks after I had my daughter, but the night before did research, and decided not to go through with the mirena. I considered it yet again, and went through with it. The insertion part was scary I passed out on the table as my physician injected the lidocaine into my cervix, i was terrified, and alone. That was uncomfortable, but was fine short after. I later had to go to work (12 hour shift) feeling weak, and crampy. I bled for about 3 1/2 weeks, each day getting lighter, or coming and going. I have had it now a month, and my libido is up, mood is crazy, very irritable, just dont feel like myself. I have decided to weigh it out for at least 6 months to see how it goes. But just want to feel like myself again, but it is a convient type of birth control, and my boyfriend doesnt complain, just wishes my moods weren't so unpredictable.
I had my appointment 6 weeks after I had my daughter, but the night before did research, and decided not to go through with the mirena. I considered it yet again, and went through with it. The insertion part was scary I passed out on the table as my physician injected the lidocaine into my cervix, i was terrified, and alone. That was uncomfortable, but was fine short after. I later had to go to work (12 hour shift) feeling weak, and crampy. I bled for about 3 1/2 weeks, each day getting lighter, or coming and going. I have had it now a month, and my libido is up, mood is crazy, very irritable, just dont feel like myself. I have decided to weigh it out for at least 6 months to see how it goes. But just want to feel like myself again, but it is a convient type of birth control, and my boyfriend doesnt complain, just wishes my moods weren't so unpredictable.
Fainting and terrible cramps when it was inserted. Those improved over time. Caused serious depression, fatigue and joint pain. The only positive thing I can say is I didn't get pregnant. Am having it removed asap
I thought very carefully before having Mirena inserted because I have not had a child. I recieved Mirena a week and a half ago. Insertion was almost unbearable! The pain in my uterus was so intense, I thought I was giving birth! I had to lay down in the back for 30 minutes before my doctor would let me leave. I took 800mg of Ibuprofen and the cramps started to ease. About four hours later, they were gone and I slept comfortably. However, the cramps continue to return every day around the orginian time of insertion (4pm). They are almost as intense as they were during insertion, and not even 800mg of Ibuprofen can knock them out completely. I also continue to bleed. I have been continuously bleeding for 10 days. Nothing a pantyliner can't handle, but very irritating after a while! A worry-free form of birth control, if you can stand the cramps and bleeding!
I had my baby girl in January of 2009, and had the mirena put in late February. About Nov. 2009 I was at my parents house doing laundry, I was chasing around my two year old son. All of a sudden, it felt like I had a really big tampon in. I don't wear tampons, so I went to the bathroom to see what it was. It was my IUD coming out. I went straight to the emergency room, and they removed it. I am a generally healthy person, and never have had any health problems. Both of my pregnancies were great with no abnormalities. I still don't understand why this happened. No doctor has really been able to explain it to me, but I probably won't get one again. It scared me to death!!!
I absoluteky love the Mirena! I have had it in for four and a half years and it is almost time to have it removed and I'm not the least bit nervous. the cost effectiveness of the mirena is amazing. Due to lighter, shorter periods, I have only gone through one and a hlaf boxes of tampons this year (it's November). Also, there is no pills to pop every day or a messy ring or shot. My breast get super tender before my period, but I think that is more because I am in my 30's now. Although I am thinking of having another baby, I'm not too sure of that yet, so I am having another Mirena put in place after this one is removed! Get it, you will not regret it!!!
I absoluteky love the Mirena! I have had it in for four and a half years and it is almost time to have it removed and I'm not the least bit nervous. the cost effectiveness of the mirena is amazing. Due to lighter, shorter periods, I have only gone through one and a hlaf boxes of tampons this year (it's November). Also, there is no pills to pop every day or a messy ring or shot. My breast get super tender before my period, but I think that is more because I am in my 30's now. Although I am thinking of having another baby, I'm not too sure of that yet, so I am having another Mirena put in place after this one is removed! Get it, you will not regret it!!!
I absoluteky love the Mirena! I have had it in for four and a half years and it is almost time to have it removed and I'm not the least bit nervous. the cost effectiveness of the mirena is amazing. Due to lighter, shorter periods, I have only gone through one and a hlaf boxes of tampons this year (it's November). Also, there is no pills to pop every day or a messy ring or shot. My breast get super tender before my period, but I think that is more because I am in my 30's now. Although I am thinking of having another baby, I'm not too sure of that yet, so I am having another Mirena put in place after this one is removed! Get it, you will not regret it!!!
Hello (mother of 1, born 2003) I just had my Mirena inserted 2 days ago (a bit painful, because I wasnt on or getting off my period ..thats when the Dr recommends it but my period hadnt come yet, and I didnt want to wait!) I mainly choose Mirena because of my debilitating cycles, heavy and painful cramps! I ran across a website where woman were just blaming all there problems on Mirena, when in fact when you look at the actual product and research the small amount of progesterone, there is no way these people were so bad off because of Mirena. I am confident I made the right choice! Its only been 2 days.. I recommend reading the precautions before having inserted. The few things I noticed it said if you have the following, they dont recommend Mirena (such as history of migraines, and if you havent had any children, and if you have multiple sex partners and have a history of PID "pelvic inflamatory disease).. Ill update in a few months!
I just had my mirena inserted today my dr talked me through it no pain no cramping I don't feel it I didn't get the numbing shot it was over in less than 10 minutes I feel like a new woman
I just had my mirena inserted today my dr talked me through it no pain no cramping I don't feel it I didn't get the numbing shot it was over in less than 10 minutes I feel like a new woman
I had mirena put in today. I have not had any children. If you are to get this without having children ask to be numbed. The pain was terrible as they measured and then placed it in. After it was in I was fine. I am home now and only feel light cramping. My gyno gave me pain medicine for the cramps. I have only heard good things about mirena so I am excited to see how this will work for me. Thank god my insurance paid for the treatmeant, I just had to pay the $10 copay.
I had mirena put in today. I have not had any children. If you are to get this without having children ask to be numbed. The pain was terrible as they measured and then placed it in. After it was in I was fine. I am home now and only feel light cramping. My gyno gave me pain medicine for the cramps. I have only heard good things about mirena so I am excited to see how this will work for me. Thank god my insurance paid for the treatmeant, I just had to pay the $10 copay.
I was really worried about side effects and how the hormones would influence my body. I'm one of those girls who gets horrible cramps, migranes, is super moody, emotional, and pretty much is the perfect example of PMS! Other hormonal birth control methods made me more moody, depressed, gain weight, etc. BUT ever since I've had the mirena I haven't had any of those problems. I stopped getting my period after 4 months, I no longer have cramps and I stopped getting migranes too. Sometimes I'll feel a little emotional for no apparent reason, but I'm not sure if its because thats when I would have had my period or if I'm just feeling emotional. I can't tell since I don't get it anymore. Even so, its nowhere near as severe as before I had it put in. I read a lot of negative feedback from other women, but I feel like women who are happy with it are just less likely to get on here and talk about it. I'm happy and I would definitely recommend it to you!!
I chose mirena because I was breastfeeding and with a new baby I wasnt sure I would be able to remember a pill everyday. The insertion was slightly painful but not bad at all. I've had it for 9 months now and for 8 months i have had a yeast infection that wont go away, even after taken multiple treatments. I have never had one before either. After reading several other blogs I realized that I have symptoms that other people have experienced too which i never thought were related to the IUD. These include loss of sex drive, tired all the time and dizziness. I was also concerned when the mirena website was under construction for many months, its finally back up but they eliminated many side effects and refer women to their doctors instead. Im sure this works for many people, but I am happy I am getting rid of mine and I would not suggest this to anyone.
After having our 3rd child and not sure if we were going to have anymore, my doctor recommended the Mirena IUD. The procedure was more painful than I expected, but I returned to my normal duties the same day just fine. All was fantastic until I got pregnant 8 months later. At 19 weeks, I lost the baby due to complications from the IUD. After two surgeries, removing the IUD was unsuccessful and we learned that it was lodged in my uterin wall. Doctors are seriously discouraging me from a third surgery that is highly invasive and risky. Now, I get to have ultrasounds every 3-6 months to make sure it isn't moving anywhere and my husband and I have lost our choice to have more children. I cannot describe the emotional and physical burden this has caused. For MOST people, this product works extremely well. But when it goes wrong, it is DEVASTATING. I wish I had known "ALL" the risks before selecting this as my method of birth control.
Mother of 2 (C-Sections) I had Mirena inserted in me only 2 days ago. I have a bad clinical history of heart and blood pressure problems. After reading many reviews the ones that stuck to me were the negative ones. I had so much anxiety. Was not able to sleep because I was expecting the worst. In the exam room the Dr. said that I would feel a pinch and Oh! I did feel it. It was very uncomfortable but not so bad. Two minutes later it was in. I was like "Is that it?" I was so relieved, I was so happy. I went back to work, about 1/2 hour later I got my period. Very light. I was expecing to have a very heavy one. Still today on my second day I only have very light period. I didn't have to take any painkillers after. Oh I forgot to mentioned that I did take one Exedrin about an hour before my procedure just in case. But nothing after. I do hope this works. I am still on the watch for the other side effects. So far I love it.
9/29, non-mom, 26yrs. Allergic to iodine/betadine/latex? Let them know!!! Make it a point to relax before or it may hurt worse because you're tense. 6 Aleve yesterday; 2 before, 2@home, and when I turned in my sleep it woke me up so I took 2 more. Reg GYN visit they use the small speculum on me, well they have to use the largest they have, that right there was NOTHING compared to what was to come; I was praying & yelping all at the same time, never felt pain like that before. They said that I was the worst case they've seen with it; my bp got to 70/50 something. They put me in recovery, leaned me back on my head to get bp up. That was when I was able to talk again because I was cold & shaking so bad. After bp returned norm I felt better except the actual pain of the IUD, which was cured by sleeping for 12.5 hrs. Bending and leaning is tricky, so be careful and do it slowly. Have someone drive you.
I love the Mirena IUD and would highly recommend it! It does hurt to have it inserted, but only for a few minutes...well worth it for 5 years of birth control! My periods have been light to almost non existant since the third month of having it inserted, in fact, all i have to use is a panty liner during my cycle! Do take at least some ibuprofen about an hour before your appointment, but even still, be prepared for a strong pinching cramp when they put it through your cervix....but like I said, well worth it!
Yes, it hurt during the install. I had a pap smear done immediately beforehand, though, so that probably contributed a lot to my discomfort. The Mirena going in just felt like a particularly sharp cramp. I had had the Misoprostol or whatever it's called to dilate my cervix before going in, as well as taking a couple of Aleve. I was working a few hours later,. no problems. I've had my Mirena for about a month and half now, have had one very mild period with minimal cramping (lasted about seven days and only two of them involved any pain). The downsides (besides obviously the pain of getting it inserted) are very minimal. I have gained about three pounds, mostly belly fat. It looks really odd because I've lost weight everywhere else (not related to the Mirena, sorry- just working out). I haven't noticed any mood swings or insomnia like other people have reported, but then again, to be fair, I'm already on an SSRI, so I might be having them and just not knowing it.
I am 21, and have had no children. I went to my doctor to get the Mirena on the first day of my period. I must have read hundreds of reviews on this site before I went in. I know my biggest question was- Will it hurt? Answer- DEAR GOD YES! The good part is that the pain does not last very long. It happens twice. The first time for about 4 sec, and the next time for about 30-45 sec. It was BAD, I broke out into a cold sweat, my legs turned to jello, and I was extremely dizzy. For the next 7ish hours, I was having INTENSE period cramps. So... it has been about 3 weeks since I got the IUD inserted and things are going really well. I had the Mirena put in the first day of my period, and my period immediately stopped. I did spot for about a 1.5 weeks after, but it was so light I just noticed it when I wiped after going to the bathroom. Now, i still have super super light spotting that I have only noticed after having sex, because it will get on my boyfriend or on the sheets.
Insertion caused cramping for a day. Then, I spotted for 3 months (light bleeding daily). I then menstrated every 2-3 weeks, for 2 weeks at a time. Finally, after 9 months, my OBGYN prescribed a mild antibiotic. After a month, my periods returned to a 25-28 day cycle, with very light bleeding for up to 1.5 weeks. I've had more bleeding than advertised. While the bleeding may be light, it's still bleeding, and my periods aren't regular. In addition, I've had insomnia and acne. I'm cautious in assigning blame to the IUD. However, I've never had insomnia, and I haven't had consistent acne like this in more than a decade. I believe my hormones are off-balance and though the IUD's hormones are localized, I believe the body is a system and nothing can be truly local. Just a gut feeling on this, and I need to start from scratch again. Conclusion: Mirena is not worth the disruption it's caused.
I went in to get the IUD placed on Monday and was expecting a little pain but nothing terrible. Instead it was HORRIBLE! I had a c-section with my second kid six weeks ago and I don't want anymore children so this was my best option. The midwife (whom I adore and I know is thorough but gentle) tried to place the IUD three times without any luck. It was suppose to measure 8 cm but was only getting to 6 cm. There was a pinch and then pressure and sharp pain. She went to get the OB to try and he pushed hard to get it into place. I reflexively kicked him and jumped back screaming... It HURT! He said my cervix was too hard to get it in so they gave me Cytotec to soften it over the weekend and I'm to go back in on Monday to try again. They also gave me Valuum and a pain killer to take one hour before the procedure or I definitely would not try it again. I really hope it is worth all this trouble in the end. If you have pain meds or just Tylenol take it BEFORE getting this thing put in.
I had my Mirena inserted this morning. The nurse inserted it during my period and I had taken 3 ibuprofen before the appointment and the pain was really minimal. I have had two vaginal deliveries and this just felt like mild labor pains or menstrual cramps. There was a slight pinch when it went in but was not bad at all. A flu shot is more painful! I have my period now and it is light from the pill I had been on, so I'm not sure if the bleeding I'm having now is Mirena or my period. So far, so good!
i gained 15 lbs. the first month with no change to my diet, i lose hair constantly, i seem to irratated all day every day, i have horrible headches, crying spells, after a few months i couldnt feel the strings anymore. its just not for everyone.
Ive been using Mirena for a few months now. Got it put in, in May, it seemed like I had no problems with light, irregular periods and I started to have migraines alot. 4 months later, September, I experienced the painful cramping, with nausea. That started to scare me because I thought something was wrong until I read the symptoms and saw that I wasnt the only one that experienced it. Im hoping the abdominal cramping goes away soon because thats the worst part. Otherwise, overall its a good contraception.
i had mine put in 3 days ago.. it didnt hurt much when they put it in.. it was like a pinch, i got home and had a little cramping nothing bad dont let people worrie you about the pain. some people handle pain different. so dont let them scare you and honestly... a little cramping is worth not getting pregnant for 5 years!!!!
I've never had kids and got Mirena 3 months before my wedding in 2007, no anesthetic, wasn't painful at all. For the first 6 months my periods were extremely painful, I don't think it was placed correctly. Somehow, something changed and the pain went away. The pill made me depressed and have low lobido. I'm reading these blogs now, Sept 2009 because I just did a pregnancy test yesterday and it came up positive. I've been feeling nausia, missed my monthly and had other signs. What are the chances. 2.5 years into my marriage and with IUD and most times we use extra protection that I get pregnant? I did a physical in July, the doctor saw the strings and said everything looked fine. I do believe that I'm one unlucky statistical anomoly. I STILL wouldn't hesitate to suggest this to a friend. Just use alternative contraception as well, the guys should be doing their part too I guess!
My periods had gotten so heavy that I became anemic and was often soaking through onto my clothes. My doctor recommended the Mirena to help get the bleeding under control. The first attempt at insertion was unsuccessful due to a fibroid at the top of my uterus that kept pushing the device out. It was painful, but tolerable. When I needed to have surgery, my doctor suggested that she try insertion again then. Mirena was inserted in January '09. For the first 3 months I had spotting almost every day. I have gained weight, but it seems to have leveled off at around 5 lbs. No complexion problems or headaches, which I did have while on BC pills. Have a slight clear yellow discharge in the AM. Need to wear a pantyliner as spotting is sporadic. Last period was so light that I could go through the day with only a pantyliner . Given what I was going through before I had it inserted I am very happy with it and would recommend this to anyone having similar problems.
I just wanted to post an update on my mirena insertion. I went for my 4 week check-up yesterday. Quick, five minute visit just to make sure everything was in place. Since having the mirena placed; I have completely stopped bleeding, which is wonderful and I hope it continues this way! Had all the signs and symptoms of my period, but nothing ever came. No serious cramping, no mood swings, no acne, no weight gain and my partner has no problem feeling the strings. Overall, this is one of the best decisions I have ever made and would recommend it to anyone!! This website has so many bad reviews, I want people to keep adding their positive experiences.
I, too, read all these reviews and was very nervous, because I am 25 & have never had kids. However, my doctor answered all my questions, & used a number of different things to make the experience comfortable for me: 1. Gave me a pill to take 6 hours before that dilated my cervix. 2. Used a numbing spray, 3. Used 3 numbing shots, 4. Talked me through everything, 5.) I took 2 Motrin 1 hour before going in. I didn't feel hardly anything during the insertion, pressure mainly. I'd honestly rate a pap smear as more uncomfortable. Right now, I am a little crampy, & have a feeling of being "full", like bloating, & very similar to a period. My doctor advised me to take Motrin every 2-4 hours for the first day or so & I should be just fine. I plan on taking a hot shower, then taking a nap, but believe that I will be able to continue the plans I had set for today (a hair appointment & a concert tonight). I will write a follow-up later, but so far, I think this was a good decision.
I also read quite a few negative reviews and was a little worried. I have to say that insertion really was NOT painful for me...Definitely not more uncomfortable than a pap smear. This is my third day on Mirena so I can not comment on the effectiveness of the drug but no bleeding, no cramping today and I definitely feel an improvement in my mood (was on Trinessa that drove me crazy). It definitely helped to get it on the last day of my period and the Dr. said it helps that I gave birth to two kids fairly recently. So, I am very happy with it so far.
I started out with the Depo shot and it literally made me so moody!! I decided to give the Mirena a try, I was really scared with some of the things I had read about it..but I had to have something. Depo was outta the question and so was a pill, i would never remember. I finally went to my consultation and ended up getting it put in the same day..their was some pain but the doctor was wonderful with guiding me through it. She knew what she was doing and did a great job.The whole process took maybe 3 minutes. I had really bad cramping for about three days...but medicine doesn't effect me..So i was in a little bit of hell..but nothing drastic that couldn't be handled. My periods pretty much stopped for 4-5 months. Now they are back..every 14 days...( which is starting to get annoying) Not sure why they came back out of the middle of no where...hopefully they will disappear again! Overall I love the mirena :) I think it's the best thing so far!!!
I have had my Mirena for 3 days. The insertion was very painful but quick. Reading reviews on this website and others and am honestly a little worried about having it put in. My doctor said that Mirena only distributes the hormones into the uterus and not the whole body and wont cause mood swings/acne/weight gain. If that is the case, where causes the negative side effects? After insertion, I felt a rush of nausea and faintness. I experience cramping all day, at times feeling piercing pain in my uterus. The second day the cramping wasnt as bad, but I felt tired and took a 5 hour nap. This is the 3rd day and I have been feeling a lot of cramping today, along with feeling tired. I have also been experiencing pain and cramping in my lower back and feeling bloated. Some of the negative reviews I have read say that they experience tiredness, loss of hair, mood swings, lack of libido, acne, depression, discomfort during sex, weight gain, thrush, dry itchy skin, head aches and migraines.
my "side-effects." My skins never been great, but the first three weeks or so of the Mirena, I did break out a bit. I did feel myself a little more pissed off a work and feeling like I was going to scream, but, I hate my job, am only there for the money, and am constantly being tested by spoiled children (I'm a nanny). I'm not the picture of healthy living, but in trying to knock weight off for a wedding I'm in this Labor Day weekend, I've noticed it a teensy bit harder than previous attempts. But, I'm also only doing it by restricting carbs. I'm not big into exercise, I like to drink vodka and diet tonics every night, and I smoke cigarettes. I also tend to have an "I'm really starting tomorrow" attitude with the food, too. So if I could do fine on this, it's a good chance many others are too.
I just had a baby 8 weeks ago, I chose to go with the Mirena even though I was scared of the pain. My doctor inserted the IUD today. It did not hurt at all. I did have some cramping afterwards but nothing more than a period cramp. I would recommend getting the Mirena to anyone. I do think that if I didn't have a child that it would have hurt because my cervix would not have been opened. I am so glad that I have one now and do not have to worry about having to pay for the pill every month!
I was so freaked out after reading all the reviews on the Mirena online... I took 2 all day relief Midol (naproxen sodium) about an hour prior to my appt... I was shaking on the table really worried about it hurting. Dr came measured me up, put it in... No pain. I am 25, 2 kids, and I was on day 7 of my cycle. I think that alot of the pain has to do with whether or not you have had kids already (they say you should have), and if you go in within the first 10 days of your cycle then it is easier as well. It has been a couple weeks now the only symptoms I have had is VERY minor cramping right afterwards, a little light bleeding for a couple days, and I seem to be shedding alot more. that could also have to do with losing all the extra hair I got with my pregnancy of my 4 month old. I also noticed I am having more frequent bowel movements. but overall, I DEFINITELY recommend this treatment option!!! I was freaked out too, but I am SOOOOOOOO glad I did it!
I got the Mirena about six months ago. I have never had children so the insertion was painful. So far, I like the Mirena, but there are a few side effects that I could live without. My periods are very irregular. Before the Mirena, I had my period every 28-30 days, but now I never know. Also, I spot a lot. Generally, I spot/bleed for about 2-3 weeks and then it'll go away for about 1-2 weeks. When I first had it inserted, my husband could feel it. He said that it pricked him and that it was a little painful but nothing unbearable. He hasn't felt it since then though. There are things that I like about the Mirena. I never have to worry about my birth control which used to be a huge issue for me. I wasn't good at keeping up with the pill. Also, I used to have cysts every year when I went for my yearly check up, but I haven't had one since I had the Mirena put in. I would definitely recommend this product to other women if they can get passed the 3-6 months of irregularity.
I had my Mirena placed and it wasn't painful, I'd just say uncomfortable at most. I had it placed 3 months after giving birth.. nothing compared to that!! I had slight bleeding for a day which went away and a tiny bit of cramping which also went away. The bad thing about it though, is I get a very thick mucous discharge all of the time which my doctor says is normal, but it is kind of gross!
I am 48 with a fibroid and horrendous periods. I had Mirena inserted 4 months ago. Insertion is not a big deal - cramping was about it. I was immediately impressed with the significantly less bleeding - previously I would go through a box of super plus tampons in a few days - I have not even had to use a super tampon. I am hoping they stop eventually. I am most disappointed and frustrated with the daily mucus discharge which by the way is very annoying and problematic with intercourse - too little friction for him. I have to wear a pantyshield every day because of the discharge. I actually made an appointment with my doc to discuss this. I am willing to give it a few more months but if I don't experience a change I will have it taken out and likely go to taking a birth control pill every day to stop my periods until menopause. I have no weight gain with Mirena, no change in mood, increased libido and I did notice a slight increase in breast size - a good thing :)
I feel compelled to write a review about Mirena. I just had this inserted yesterday and after reading a lot of these reviews, I was terrified. I wish more people who have had good experiences would take the time to write positive reviews, because frankly this web site may scare may women like me. Yes, the insertion was painful. Intolerable? absolutely not. I did not give birth to my child naturally so my cervix never dialated which makes insertion more painful. But, still only a few minutes of discomfort. Once it was over, there was cramping which lasted a few hours. I took Advil immediately and the pain subsided very shortly after. I woke up this morning with almost no bleeding and no cramps. My lower back is a bit sore, but no more than what I feel when I get my period. I seem a little more sleepy than usual, but I imagine this is only becasue my body is recovering and trying to heal. So far, I am VERY PLEASED with my decision and am very glad I did it !!
I read so many horror stories before I had this put in and thought "that's not me". I run 2 miles a day, have had 2 healthy pregnancies and am generally a very happy lady. The insertion of the IUD did not hurt. The first week was fine but then started to feel like I was pregnant....morning sickness, exhaustion and general malaise. Dr. said this would pass and it did,but new side effects came about. I gained 15 pounds within a few weeks. I have become very irritable and moody and have had sporadic suicidal thoughts. I wear tampons all the time because I am bleeding or spotting all the time. I have no desire to have sex....who would? I know myself and this is NOT it. I know the Mirena has been great for some of you. Many of my friends have it and love it. I just wanted to have my story out there. Our body chemistry is so amazing and it was made that way for a reason. If I can help it, I will NOT mess with mine again.
I have been on the pills,the patch, the depo shot and now i am using the mirena. I had been on the depo for two years and i bled or would spot every day literally. I stayed on it because of how effective it was and my doctor would not insert the iud because i had not had children. the shot ruined my sex life completely. I finally told my doc i could not handle it anymore and that i insisted on another form of bc. He finally agreed to it. The insertion was painful for 5 sec or so and then another 5 sec after that i got another sharp pain. i took advil, motrin, ibeprophen, pamprin, nothing helped. After 5 hours of intense cramping i took exedrine extra strength and it went away. I experienced no bleeding afterwards and i have already noticed my sex drive is increased and my appetite decreased. My fiance says it tickled the first time but it did not hurt at all. So far, i am very pleased with this product. I would definetly recommend this bc.
I just had the Mirena put in 3 days ago. I had to be put to sleep due to my cervix is very sensitive and it was too painful to insert when I was awake. If you have a lot of pain during the insertion, you could have a very sensitive cervix. After woke up, I felt fine, just a little cramping which is normal. I have had no bleeding so far and just some occasonal cramping (period like). I am very excited about not having to worry about birthcontrol. I never could remember to take the pills and I had complications with the patch(migranes, mood swings, heavy bleeding, no sex drive...). So hopefully this will be much better. Will update later.
I have tired EVERY type of birth control besides the new implant, this and the shot...Every one of them I had horrible side effects... When I first went in to get the mirena I would not dilate fully since I have never had a child so I had to go through all the pain a second time when I was on my period(about a wk ago)...which as people have mentioned itâ€™s extremely painful. Mind you I took Motrin 500's prior. get some vicodin before and after insertion anyways, I was fine all the way home but about 3 hours later I was in so much pain. I took vicodin 500's and that really helped. I have been having random cramps, bloating, I have stopped bleeding but from what I have heard it will start up again. I'm a little concerned because I have gained 7lbs since insertion but everyone keeps telling me its water weight and should go away. I've started taking panabrom for it.
Well, truthfully I didn't get this for birth control. I'm in my late 30's and since having my children my periods had become unbearable. I was bleeding horribly, through my clothes, etc.....Cramping was putting me in bed, literally. I was sick of it. A friend suggested this option to me. I was worried about the cost, but my insurance covered most of it=D Honestly, having it placed was unpleasant at most, but no worse than what I was living through. THe uterus is an exit only made organ. I had really bad cramping after placement, but only for about an hour. Some pink smearing after too, but just for a 1/2 day. Three weeks in is where I am now, and so far it's wonderful=D I am having my regular period now, and it's already MUCH lighter....I can't hardly believe it!! I am NOT having to double up on safety products like before, I am only wearing a regular flow long pad, HA!!!
PAINFUL!! My Dr. never warned me about how painful it will be when being insterted...ouch! it was the worst pain ever! I had Mirena for 2 1/2 years, At first I loved it since my period literally went away, though I did notice my sex drive whent down, I gained abou 20lbs, I am diabetic in a strict diet and I was not able to loose weight, it seemed that I was gaining wieght! I never suffered with acne until after I had Mirena inserted, never in my mind did I think all these syptoms were caused because of this, until I put two and two together. i always felt bloated, I felt like I was pregnant! which I was not! Finally-I just had it removed today and it did not hurt at all!! My husband decided to have a visectomy so need for birthcontrol on my part =) I feel so much better, we will see what happens after this.As far as recommending this...no way! try something different.
Just got Mirena today!!! I was terrified about getting it with all the bad reviews i've read!!! I was literally crying when I was waiting in the waiting room to go in!! But I wanted to get it cause i have trouble remembering to take a pill everyday, and I'd save a ton on money cause my insurance covered it 100%! Honestly...I worked myself up for NOTHING!!! The dr talked me the whole way through it and when he said "that's it, it's all done!!!" I couldn't believe it! I didn't feel a thing!!! I had very, very slight cramping when he was done and some bleeding when I got home, but I was so surprised that it didn't hurt at all!!!! I did take motrin an hour before my appt. but I didn't have a numbing shot or anything!!! Please...if you're having doubts or thinking that you can't do it cause it will be painful, just relax!! I was so scared I couldn't sleep last night, and it was all for nothing!!! I'll update later and let you know how it's going but today it's great!!!!!
Just had the device 'installed' today. Didn't hurt a bit - I took 2 regular strength Tylenol before I went in and was fine. Have had 1 twinge since then and that's it. Not sure how effective it is, but from the installation, seems pretty easy going so far. Would recommend it up to this point. I will keep you posted. PS: This site freaks people out!
I've had the Mirena in for about 8 months. The first few days I had terrible cramps, but bearable, but after a few weeks I had a terrible raw, burning pain on the outer part of my vagina. I could barely close my legs, but the doctor prescribe a cream and tylenol 3's, and within a week it was gone. My period's were light and I would even go a few months with no bleeding. But these last three month's I have been bleeding for 72 days, cramping, and a few dizzy spells. Don't really know if it is from the Mirena but believe it is. I love the fact that I do not have to take a pill and like it overall. Just tired of having to wear a pad!!!
I was 34, single with no previous pregnancies when I made the decision to have the Mirena inserted two years ago. 1/2 for convenient birth control, and 1/2 because I had struggled with anemia for so long, and I needed to stop my periods. I had at that point resigned myself to being OK never bearing my own children. So the decision was an easy one for me with respect to fertility post-mirena. Having never had my cervix dialated, I found the insertion procedure to be extremely painfull. And had minor cramping for about 24 hours post insertion. After two years, I cant say enough how much I love my mirena. I had light periods for about 3 months, and haven't had one since. I can tell when I still have a 'cycle', because about every 6 weeks I will have painful breasts. Like pre-menstral breast pain - only worse. That is the only side effect that I have had. For my purposes, the Mirena has been wonderful!
Ok so I've had the Mirena iud for almost 2 years now, and is getting it out on July 6, 09. I had to have a second one put in on Jan 13 09 cuz the other one was a little low. But since then I've had a problem with nausea. It makes me not to want to have sex sometimes cuz I feel like I'm really nausea afterwards. The nausea makes me not want to eat, cuz i get real nauseated. I'm tired more than i was beofre. I get upset too easy at my boyfriend. I feel my hair has come out some. Ive put on weight that I can't get off, no matter what i eat, or exercise, even drink slim fast. This is something I would never recommend to anyone. And if you want to see side effects google "Mirena Iud Problems"
I went searching the night before it was to be put in, and I found the most horrifying review ever, I WAS TERRIFIED, I suddenly found myself trying to convince myself that I COULD take a pill EVERY DAY, and that it would be easier to just take that pill. Then I found this web site, I wrote down all my questions, and went in to get it. I was still nervous, because 90% of doctors offices, DO NOT have this "numbing" shot, that all these reviews state would be a good idea, it is an epidural, however the process of putting it in, causes "cramps" for ONE WHOLE minute not that bad for five years of enjoyme. BUT these cramps, are not like any other cramps, if anyone has ever had NATURAL child birth, I am here to say, THAT IS EXACTLY HOW IT FEELS! You will clench your jaw, bear down, and cuss. But it literally last for ONE minute. The actual process is longer then a minute, but the pain is only for a small period of time.
no matter what birth control you use always have a back up plan. you can never be too careful. i know someone who used this and still ended up pregnant. can this really flip!? the answer seems to be yes. this isnt to be taken lightly, be sure to choose a knowledgeable doctor and know the facts!
I just got it inserted on 5/11/2009. I am having it removed on 6/5/2009. When first inserted they said it would be a pinch sensation. Honestly, it felt like I was going through labor. Luckily the feeling subsided fairly quickly, but the pain was intolerable. I have been bleeding everyday since then. Also, I have had cramping and they are getting worse to the point when it does happen I need to stop what I am doing. I told my Dr. and he said this is not normal and for me to remove it. I would not recommend this product to anyone.
For years every time i had a period, it was cramping so bad it made me physically ill, crying from the pain and vomiting for atleast two days. When i found mirena, after about two mildly uncomfortable months, i havent had a period since, other than occasional light spotting, in the last four years. It was so worth it to me, not only is the pain gone, but it leaves your sexlife schedule a lot more open. From what i understand, my uterus is a little more sensitive than most, and when Mirena was put in, i had the worst cramps of my life, i certainly reccommend taking a high dosage of painkiller beforehand. After that i had spotting and the occasional cramp or two for almost two months, but im so glad i stuck it out. Four years without a period... it's the wonder drug, as far as im concerned.
I love the Mirena. I had heard some bad reviews and some goos so I was sceptical and kinda scared. When it was inserted I felt a little pinching and cramping and I was kinda crampy for a while after. I had a heavy period for about 4-5 weeks which wasn't fun. I had cramping for a few weeks as well. 6 weeks after insertion I went to get it checked and everything was fine. Since then I have had light spotting since. Even though my sex drive has decreased drastically and I have gained a little weight I love it! Everyone has different effects so I recommend it!
I just got over the worst "3-6" months, my first three months were iffy! I bleed for my regular peroid, and spoted almost everyday inbetween for the first 3 months after the third month i just bleed long and heavy... now i am a year 1/2 in and i get my peroid for just over 2 days, its sooo light i can wear one pad all day. I can remember two days where i was on and off cramping, annonying more then anyhing, over the last year 1/2. I did get more pimples then usual, nothing obnixious, but i did notice more pimples for the first 3 months, now i am back to my normal self! i LOVE the Mirena! it is sooo nice to not take a pill everyday! and to know that i am 99% effective! i have two beautiful girls! 4 and 2 years old and want to wait to have more kids and being SO busy i just needed a semi-perminate form of B.C.! so drecommend the Mirena! go for it! you will love it to! (after the first 3 months are over :) it goes by fast!)
I just got over the worst "3-6" months, my first three months were iffy! I bleed for my regular peroid, and spoted almost everyday inbetween for the first 3 months after the third month i just bleed long and heavy... now i am a year 1/2 in and i get my peroid for just over 2 days, its sooo light i can wear one pad all day. I can remember two days where i was on and off cramping, annonying more then anyhing, over the last year 1/2. I did get more pimples then usual, nothing obnixious, but i did notice more pimples for the first 3 months, now i am back to my normal self! i LOVE the Mirena! it is sooo nice to not take a pill everyday! and to know that i am 99% effective! i have two beautiful girls! 4 and 2 years old and want to wait to have more kids and being SO busy i just needed a semi-perminate form of B.C.! so drecommend the Mirena! go for it! you will love it to! (after the first 3 months are over :) it goes by fast!)
A bit uncomfortable during insertion, but procedure only lasts about 10 minutes. The next day i felt very nauseous and actually threw up, but after the second day I felt absolutely fine. Since Ive had Mirena, for about 8 months, I have had very light periods, almost non existent, which only last about a couple days. Overall this treatment is so amazing, I would recommend it to anyone!! The only thing is that old research says that Mirena is meant for those who have had a child, and may cause Pelvic Inflammatory disease. However, this is not true. Originally they believed that the small string that hangs down into your uterus could be a risk factor for bacterial infections so those who are in a committed relationship are in a better position to avoid a disease. This has been refuted however. Also, Mirena will not cause PID, but if you are at risk for developing it (aka a history of ectopic pregnancy), Mirena may very well increase your chances.
My doctor suggested Mirena to when my insurance stopped covering my current BC (Nuva Ring which I loved) I had no idea the amount of pain that would come along with the insertion. (Never had children before) I almost had a car accident while trying to drive myself home. I cramped for three days and then everything went away. Unfortunately my skin reacted terrible. My face was so bad I had to go back to the Dr. for prescription antibiotics and facewash. I gave it 9 months and had to have it removed. It hurt to have sex and it kept moving in my uterus, not to mention I gained 10 pounds. It didn't work for me, but everyone's body is different.
I had the Mirena for six months and spotted continually the entire time. My Doctor even added a birthcontrol pill to see if that would lessen the problem. It didn't. Because of this I was uncomfortable with it. I had to always wear a pad because I could never tell when the bleeding would ramp up. I also gained wieght with it and will probably again now that I just had it removed last week. The change in haromones afftects my appitite. After the removal I have been bleeding majorly ever since. I can't wait to get back to my regular periods this has been a real pain. Keep in mind that side effects are uncommon and it was just my luck. But I felt you should know not everyone gives this treatment glowing reviews. I am really disapointed it didn't work out. the mothly cost is for pads every day.
I had the Mirena for six months and spotted continually the entire time. My Doctor even added a birthcontrol pill to see if that would lessen the problem. It didn't. Because of this I was uncomfortable with it. I had to always wear a pad because I could never tell when the bleeding would ramp up. I also gained wieght with it and will probably again now that I just had it removed last week. The change in haromones afftects my appitite. After the removal I have been bleeding majorly ever since. I can't wait to get back to my regular periods this has been a real pain. Keep in mind that side effects are uncommon and it was just my luck. But I felt you should know not everyone gives this treatment glowing reviews. I am really disapointed it didn't work out. the mothly cost is for pads every day.
I LOVE my Mirena. Easy insertion, looked perfectly in place at my ultrasound, no side effects. I felt some cramps maybe two days within the first week which was expected, but nothing some Motrin could not take care of. No cramps or discomfort since. I have felt a little more hungry, but that is good for me since I am under weight. I was having very heavy long periods before and now they are very light, almost non existant. My acne has honestly cleared up. I have more energy because I am eating better and not bleeding with my periods so much anymore. I don`t feel it at all and forget about it most of the time. Totally worry free birth control! I will be getting another one when this one expires.
Coming from someone who's never undergone childbirth, it hurt TERRIBLY. I was unmedicated and the measuring of the uterus and the insertion was honestly some of the worst pain I've ever felt. Fortunately the intense pain disappated quickly. Outside of the pain, I am completely and totally happy with it and the pain seems minor. I only got one light period since I've had it inserted and have gone without my period for 4 months now and I love it! And, like other's I've read, I've lost weight since switching from hormonal pills to mirena.
I have my 2nd Mirena in right now. I got my first one in March of '04 when my son was 15 mos. old. Minimal spotting for the first few months and then next to no period (super light spotting - barely enough for a pantyliner) until I had it taken out March 26th 2007 to try for a second baby (I was afraid it would hurt coming out, but I didn't even feel it). Had a regular period April 18th, and conceived my daughter 2 weeks later. Had my 2nd Mirena put in at my 6 week check up (March '08) and just got my period back last month (again super light). I literally cannot say enough good things about this product. Best invention ever!
I've had my Mirena for 20 months, give or take. The insertion was VERY painful (I haven't had a child before), and I had heavy cramping and bleeding for two days. Before Mirena, I had been on the pill, and it gave me HORRIBLE mood swings, and left me with little sex drive. At first with Mirena, everything was SUPER! I stopped getting my period, my mood swings were better, sex drive came back, and life was grand. Over the past few months, that has all changed. I've been having cramps almost daily, mood swings are back, and definitely feeling like something is just "off" (increased anxiety and depression). Oh, and lots of low back pain recently. I know friends who have had several Mirenas and love them, and it worked great for me for a while, but I am going to get it out next week. I can't take it anymore. And honestly, I'm done with BC for good, it is my husband's turn. I'm sick of putting hormones and contraptions in my body.
I had a mirena iud placed 4 1/2 months ago. This treatment is not for the faint of heart. I have two friends who have this iud and have not had a single period since it was placed (they have both had it for the entire five years). I, on the other hand, experienced bleeding almost every day for 4 months. At first it was here and there and light. At two months I basically had a flow like a normal period for two weeks. Just last week I finally went 4 days without bleeding. It is effective for birth control. It is also cost effective compared to birth control pills. I just think you need to be prepared to endure long durations of bleeding. I am hopeful that by 6 months I will have little to no bleeding.
I've had my Mirena for a week, and it has been fine. I had pain on insertion, but I've never had children. The pain lasted 5-10 seconds (twice) and once I relaxed and breathed it eased. My OBGYN was very informative and described exactly what he was doing and when I would feel things. I had heavier bleeding and cramping that evening and the next morning. I've had very little spotting, and minor sporadic cramps. The best advice I can give you is to read the info and ASK questions. My doctor gave me the pamphlet at my annual appointment. He spoke with me a few days later to answer questions. He checked with me before, during, and after the procedure to make sure my concerns were addressed. I have noticed additional moisture, which I am assuming is a vaginal response to the strings. I decided to take acidophilus to prevent any yeast infections after reading other reviews, even though i do not usually have a problem. I feel great!
Read many scary reviews but after much thought decided to go for it none the less. The insertion was relatively painless, just a bit of pinching and very minor cramps for the first 24 hours. Felt a little uncomfortable for the first day and feel absolutely nothing since. Am happy so far and glad I did it!
I had my Mirena inserted one week ago. I have no kids, so insertion was painful. My doctor only had me take Aleve and did not use any numbing agent. I think that's one reason why some women find it so painful and some do not. If you're considering gettting Mirena, see if you're doctor will be using a numbing agent to make insertion less painful. OK, so I'm the person who posted the info about the progesterone cream below. For women in their reproductive years Pro-gest is only used the last two weeks of your menstral cycle. That's why I haven't used it since I had my Mirena put it in a week ago. I used it before Mirena and it worked wonders for me then so I can't imagine that it wouldn't work with Mirena in. I'll have to post again after I've tried it. In theory, it should work. I suggest those with symptoms try it as well and post about your experiences.
I have some of the side effects that a lot of women are having. I do a lot of on-line research and I've found something that could help out a lot of women. It seems that the side effects being experienced are the same side effects associated with progesterone deficiency. Visit www.natural-hormones.net/progesterone-deficiency-symptoms.htm. Progesterone is released when you ovulate and since Mirena prevents ovulation in some this might explain why these symptoms arise. There is a progesterone cream available that has been helping many women deal with these symptoms. It is called Pro-gest (www.emerita.com) and itâ€™s available over-the-counter. Talk to your doctor about it and try it to see if that resolves your side effects. I was using it before Mirena and it does work. The Mirena is expensive and if symptoms can be resolved by an all-natural over-the-counter product, then what have you got to loose, right?
i have had my mirena now for one week and so far so good! i was really scared after reading some reviews but all of my friends have them and they are all so happy! i am breastfeeding so hopefully by the time ide get a period, i wont! when they put it in i felt a small cramp, and period like feelings the rest of the day with small spotting thats already went away. i took the minipill for 6 days and i felt bad, with the mirena i feel normal. its so cool to know you are 99.99% protected with no hassle, its cheaper than paying for bc every month and its the easiest one out there! my friend has hers taken out and became pregnate right after so thats cool! i just had baby#2 so its cool to know that until we are ready for #3 we can have great sex with no worries! try it you'll dig it=)
I had the Mirena for over two years....just removed today. It took a full year after insertion to get the bleeding to stop. It was never much, it just didn't quit. After the first year, I bled typically for 10 days, plus over my ovulation time. Cramps were bad. Recently, after trying everything I knew of to control mood swings (no caffeine, no alcohol, more exercise, lower stress), it occurred to me it might be the IUD. Sure enough. Doc says my system is 'awash' in progesterone. I feel pregnant though I know I'm not. I've gained 15 pounds with it in, despite exercise and eating well. Blood pressure is up, too. It worked great, I just couldn't take the side effects any more.
I read these reviews before I had Mirena inserted and became terrified! But I am here to tell you it was nothing to be worried about. Mirena was inserted week ago. I experience the pinch and then some cramping & bleeding for 2-3 days. I am very satisfied with Mirena!
I read so many bad experiences about Mirena that I was really scared to get mine. However, I have to report that it was a breeze. I got it 8 weeks after giving birth and the only pain I felt was when the doctor was measuring my uterus. She said it had to be moved in line just a bit. This caused a few cramps but as soon as she put the IUD in the pain was gone. As a matter of fact I didn't have a single cramp after the insertion. The only side effect I have experienced has been light spotting. I just wear a light tampon whenever this happens and that's it. No pill to take, no other birth control to worry about. It's extremely simple and so worth it.
It has been almost two years since i have had Mirena, and i have had no problems so far. My periods are just now stopping, but before they were very light. I have problably had cramps once, so it can't get much better than that. I definantly recommend it to everyone.
After having women tell me how much they loved their IUD's I got mine inserted two months ago, excited for the freedom I would soon experience. First of all it was much more painful of an insertion than I expected. I can count on one hand the number of days I have not bled in two months. I bleed on and off every single day with cramping on and off. I have no idea when my cycle is and what seemed like a period lasted 13 days without a break. Then it stopped for two days, then more bleeding. I was told to "hang in there" but I will give it another month and then I'm done. The irony is I did this to give my boyfriend and I the freedom to be sexual whenever we want without the risk of pregnancy, but how do you have sex when you are bleeding every day? Very frustrating. I guess every woman is different and there is no way to predict who will be a good candidate.
Mirena insertion was very painful. I have given birth so it puzzles me as to why it hurt so much. For the first few months I had cramping on almost a constant basis. I've had two periods, neither one too heavy in the 9 months that I've had the Mirena. I was told that the side affects should die down by 6 months, but in the last few weeks i've begun to feel them again. I have a very tender lower stomach, slight pain that comes and goes, extreme fatigue and the lovely breast tenderness. Now that it's nearing 9 months, I find myself worried that maybe I am one of the few who were able to get pregnant on Mirena (I've become pregnant on three of the other birth control methods). I feel silly worrying about it, but what am I supposed to do? They said my body should be adjusted by now. I'm contemplating getting mine removed, especially after the pain landed me in the ER and they told me it was a painful period (no period to be found and the pain was constant for 6 weeks).
I just got mine inserted about a month ago. And got dam, I've never been in more pain in my life. I have no kids, a couple miscarriages only, constantly spotting, moodiness, and hella bad cramps like no other. The cramps I'm getting are crippling, on a scale of 1 to 10, its a 10. but it comes and goes thru out the day, pretty much every other day or sometimes everyday. And the pains just seem to be getting worse and worse. Is this normal? Should i schedule an appt with my doc and have it checked out?
After ONE YEAR of use, i still experience severe pain, even though my doctor said it would take 6 months for all the negative side effects to go away. I've never had a pregnancy, maybe this product shouldn't be given to patients like me. The pains are not only in my lower abdomen but on my legs and my colon and lower back. Pain isn't even the word for it, it feels like you're being stabbed from the inside. It's intolerable. NOT RECOMMENDED TO ANYONE. Hoping for a non pill non mirena solution.
Mirena was inserted @ my 6 wk. appt. I exp'd the sting/ pinch and then some cramping & bleeding for 2-3 days. 2 months after, I had the string trimmed cuz my husband could feel it. It seemed great at 1st and so far it is moslty wonderful. However, there are a couple things I am exper. that MAY be a side effect, but I have also been told that these are common after giving birth. I would never know because I just had my first child. So, for about 10 mos. I have exp'd a chronic yeast infec., no libido, and moderate PMS. The worst part is the chronic yeast infection. I've had only 1 time prior to getting pregnant. I get too dry or too wet, and there is an unpleasant odor. I have been treated with multiple doses of Diflucan. As part of the process of elimination, I will prob. have it removed and go back to pills, which have been ok for me. The patch made me violently ill, Depo made me depressed and gain 25 lbs.(on it 3 yrs). The pill is all I have found that keeps me mostly normal.
I had my MIrena put in 5 weeks after my daughters birth and truthfully, i would rather go through labor again that have another IUD inserted. I cried, and i almost passed out due to the pain. I bled continuously for 8 months after insertion and had an extremely low sex drive. (not from my daughters birth, because it was not low after she was born) In the last 9 months the "new level" of hormones started working and i got SEVERE acne, even when i was pregnant i never had an outbreak. I had multiple ovarian cysts and extreme bloating. I had terrible mood swings and was extremely depressed. I had my Mirena removed 3 weeks ago and the day after i started feeling like the "old" me. I use Yaz now and my skin is 99% better, i feel happy, and my sex drive has gone up. My insurance also did not covor $300 worth of the treatment to get it inserted. I DO NOT RECOMMEND MIRENA AT ALL!
I had a wonderful experience with the Mirena IUD. I just had it taken out (to try for a new baby) last week after having it for 2 1/2 years. I actually weigh 16 pounds less than I did before I had my baby.My periods were verly light and shorter duration. I also didn't have cramps anymore, which was great. The only thing that was somewhat bad was the unpredicatability of my periods. I was very regular before, but with the Mirena I couldn't keep track of when I would start. Fortunatly, they were so light it rarely caused any real problems.
I do know that every birth control is different for each person, but I would absolutely never recommend this to anyone! I thought it was great at first- no pain when getting it put in, no periods and no spotting at all, and I didn't have to remember to take a pill everyday. I chose the MIrena for convenience. There weren;t many things for me to pick from since I was breastfeeding, but after my current pregnancy I don't know if I will get anything. It will be better than the stupid Mirena. I had it in for a year and 2 or 3 months and during that time I gained about 30 pounds, had absolutely no sex drive, and I got the same infection, bacterial vaginosis, 4 or 5 times. Every time it was treated it came back within a week. My doctor and I are pretty sure this is what caused my miscarriage last December. Sex was painful. Even after getting it taken out I still hate having sex. I am hoping this pregnancy will help fix that.
Painful insertion, but pain only lasts a few hours. They told me I would have irregular periods for a few months then spotting and then probably few light periods. I have spotted the whole time between irregular heavy periods. I bleed after sex, when I feel "pretty" enough to have it because of the spotting. My hair fell out, and I gained weight in my stomach ( bloating). And when I say bleeding after sex, I mean bleeding, and for several days after. This is after having it for seven months, and trying to take three months of birth control pills on top of the mirena to regulate me. Good luck
I am horrible at remembering pills, so my GYN recomended the Mirena since you don't have to do anything to it. I though it sounded wonderful, Especially since he said that the side effects were few and go mainly unnoticed. After I had my son, I started to lose my baby weight, but then I had the mirena inserted, and a gained 30 pounds, which I have not been able to lose. I have a lot of swelling in my legs and feet, cramps a few times a month, extreme fatigue, no sex drive, and my vision (which was always perfect) is now down to 20/100. I would not recommend for anyone to use this product. My GYN doesn't even use it anymore, and I am having mine taken out. The company who makes Mirena was also taken to court for malpractice in 2007 when patients started having side effect, and found out that there were no long-term studies done on the IUD.
I read a few bad reviews on Mirena, and I was terrified when I went to my doctor's visit to have the IUD inserted. When my doctor inserted Mirena, I only felt minor pinching... it really didn't hurt at all. I didn't experience any cramping afterwards, either. I had very minimal spotting the next day, and then the spotting went away after the 2nd day. I am very satisfied with Mirena!
I read a few bad reviews on Mirena, and I was terrified when I went to my doctor's visit to have the IUD inserted. When my doctor inserted Mirena, I only felt minor pinching... it really didn't hurt at all. I didn't experience any cramping afterwards, either. I had very minimal spotting the next day, and then the spotting went away after the 2nd day. I am very satisfied with Mirena!
I've had Mirena inserted in June 2006, I've set an appointment to get it removed for next week. Using Mirena I've had no periods at all for almost 3 years after about a month of having it inserted. I've gained a ton of weight over the years of having it put in. I used to weigh 135lbs and now I'm 185lbs. I've read on a lot of forums that Mirena causes women to gain a lot of weight amongst other horrible side effects. I want to know what to expect from having it removed??? Is there any really bad side effects when removed? If women who have gained weight with Mirena, does the weight go away quickly??? How long does it take for someone to get normal periods gain??? Any help would be highly appreciated, I've talked to my gyno about this and he wasn't all that helpful. Thank you in advance!
I had the IUD mirena inserted a week ago. My gyno had me put under aneastetic as I have not had any children. So I just remember going into the room and falling asleep. When I woke up I felt ok, I just had cramping pains like a period. They gave me some nurophen for the pain.Before I left the nurses again wanted to check on the amount of bleeding and it wasnt much at all. I went straight to sleep when I got home. Next day was fine, not much pain at all, the occassional cramp. In the past week I have had occasional cramping, nothing too bad, just feels like a period. Today I am bleeding as though it is a normal period. Pain is fixed with some nurophen.During sex I dont feel anything abnormal. Seems just like before. As for my partner, he doesnt feel any strings or anything that is up there.
I was horrifed after reading reviews to have it done. Rest assured it's not that bad. Although I'm not going to lie, it is painful. Right after it is done, you do have major cramping, that for me, subsided after two hours and only mild cramping thereafter. I would recommend having it done if it is right for you. I did hear that it is much more painful if you have not had children. Maybe because your uterus and cervix has never contracted/dialated before?
I had my Mirena put in 5 years ago, in a couple of days I am scheduled for a consult to have it removed. When I had it inserted it was the most painful things I have ever had-I have birthed 2 children and I would birth more instead of going through it again. The doctor acted shocked when I about flew off the table and began sobbing. The doctor didn't tell me about any side effects, I now have a new doctor since. I have had pain during the whole length of time. It has been stabbing me whenever I bend over, exercise, sometimes just sitting down. Sex has is uncomfortable for me. I can't wait but I am EXTREMELY terrified to have it removed. That is the only reason I have waited the 5 years to do it. HATE IT!!!!!!
I thought this would be the perfect birth control option. As if there really is a perfect option. I can't complain about the insertion pain, it really wasn't bad for me at all. The cramps afterward were horrible. The bleeding was insane for about a month. Now over a year later, the cramps I get are so intense and very sharp pains. I have gained over 20 pounds. Take into account that I was postpartem when I got it inserted... I shouldn't have GAINED weight. The water retention is horrible. My skin is fine, bleeding is rather light. My biggest complaint is that I got pregnant on it, then miscarried. Not what I want to be going through physically or emotionally. So its coming out next week. Good riddance. Honestly, I don't think any hormonal birth control is going to be 'perfect' The horomones mess with you.
I just had the Mirena IUS inserted last week, and aside from the procedure being very painful, I have to say that so far I love it! I only had cramping the first night along with some spotting. I had sex on the second night and it was great. I am glad I don't have to worry about getting pregnant and I can now enjoy sex more!
I've had the Mirena ring for over 2 years now and just love it! There was a bit of discomfort when it was being inserted and for the few days following, but it has decreased the flow of my period dramatically. I have had no side effects (no weight gain, no headaches, etc) and would definitely recommend it to others.
I had the mirena inserted 1 week ago. The insertion hurt alot. I HIGHLY recommend taking a pain pill before, since the 1400 mg of ibprofin did nothing.SInce I've been good, well not bad. The side effects I've had are very mild cramping (like you have to poop!), very light stopping, and a very light consant headache. Aside from that the Mirena had been a good choice for me. It's really nice to not have to worry about anything for the next 5 yrs. Also, my BF and I cannot "feel" it during "it". My cost for the whole shabang was $625. I haven't paid my deductible so it was more. With out insurance it would have been $850.
I had my mirena placed 4 months after my son was born and had irregular bleeding for like 3 months (as in pretty much nonstop but it was my first period postpartum). Also I have had some headaches that were pretty bad but migraines run in my family and I had 2 prior to the Mirena not that my headaches were migraines. Now my period comes occassionally like everyother month or so, so if it's 9 days but very light so what?! I used to bleed for 14 days every 14 days really heavy if not on birthcontrol and a full 7 days of normal/heavy bleeding on the pill/patch/ring/ect. Also I have lost weight about 12 lbs. and my breasts are larger.
I had my mirena placed 4 months after my son was born and had irregular bleeding for like 3 months (as in pretty much nonstop but it was my first period postpartum). Also I have had some headaches that were pretty bad but migraines run in my family and I had 2 prior to the Mirena not that my headaches were migraines. Now my period comes occassionally like everyother month or so, so if it's 9 days but very light so what?! I used to bleed for 14 days every 14 days really heavy if not on birthcontrol and a full 7 days of normal/heavy bleeding on the pill/patch/ring/ect. Also I have lost weight about 12 lbs. and my breasts are larger.
I've had it almost a year. Insertion was quite painful. My doctor told me to take 3 Advil and I'd be fine--uh, no. If you plan on getting it, definitely get the numbing shot. Had a lot of cramping but it wasn't bad enough to where I couldn't drive myself back to work and finish the day. I get a little cramping for a day around the time when my period used to start each month, but no bleeding. Weight gain is possible but unlikely--I've actually lost weight on this. Mirena contains some of the lowest doses of hormones so it's less likely to affect you than pills. My dr cut my strings short so they are not noticeable at all. Insurance covered it so I only had a $15 co-pay for 5 years of stress-free birth control! I think many are quick to blame away things like stress and weight gain on Mirena without looking at their lives. I've tried the pill, patch, nuva ring, and shot before and Mirena is by far my favorite. No thinking about it, no period, no pain or inconvenience.
Despite my AWESOME doctor using a local anesthetic (since I havent had any children) the pain at insertion was excrutiating for a day and a half. My periods have lightened up since my insertion 5 months ago and the pain this period was barely noticable at this point. I have always had problems with mood swings on periods and have none now. I cant ever feel my mirena now that the strings have been cut. BUT MY HUSBAND CAN feel the strings. We had the best sex life and we have about 20% of the sex that we used to because hes says he can feel it. Two female doctors rolled their eyes when I said this an refused to trim, they told me "its supposed to soften up" or that he was immagining it. I actually saw where I scratched him once so I refuse to believe that. Hes not a big guy, hes normal sized so Im not sure if were crazy or the doctors are just patronizing me.
INCREDIBLE PAIN AT INSERTCION, DIFFERENT THAN LABOR TO ME, CONSTANT SPOTTING, MY PARTNER DOES NOT FEEL THE STRINGS, INCREASED ACNE, MOOD SWINGS, BUT OVERALL IT PROTECTS ME PROM PREGNANCY SINCE PILLS ARE TO MUCH RESPONSIBILITY FOR ME
A year after the birth of my daughter, I decided to use the Mirena due to suggestions from friends. When they placed it inside, it was so painful that I thought I might pass out, but after 20 minutes, some food and drink, the doctor let me go home. My husband and I were both able to feel the strings that hang down, even after I went back and had them trimmed. So, this, in itself, discouraged sex for us. Additionally, I could feel it when I bent down or did yoga. It also caused me to have a few large painful ovarian cysts during the five months it was in. In the end, I decided the discomfort was not worth it for me.
I love the mirena iud! I have had it for almost two years now. I have no more periods, very rarely get cramps, and have had no weight gain. I couldn't be happier.
Got Mirena 1 month ago. 37 yr old mother of 2. Insertion was a breeze- slight "poke" feeling with the lidocane and then I felt nothing. Very light cramps the day of insertion. Light to moderate spotting for a week. Now only a light spot about once a week. No weight gain. Previously used pills- was always ravenously hungry and moody, bloated the week before period. That is all gone. And the sex drive is better than on the pill. I love it, reccommend it. Good luck!
got the Mirena yesterday. I'm very young, have had no pregnancies. Took a couple advil before hand. Installation was horrible. Doctor had a little trouble getting the tube inside my cervix. Don't usually whine about pain, but the installation was excruciating. I drove home, bad idea. So much in pain that I broke out in a cold sweat and grew dizzy. When I got home, I laid in bed and suffered from the intense cramps for about an hour. After that, the pain subsided and I felt much better. This morning, I woke up with minor cramps that went away quickly. All in all- be prepared for intense pain if you have never had children and have someone drive you home.
I read these reviews before I had Mirena inserted and became terrified!!! But I am here to tell you it was nothing to be worried about. My doctor answered all my questions(before I was naked), measured me before Mirena was inserted(since I have never had a child), numbed the area(felt like pinching) and then inserted the device(felt like a period cramp). I drove myself home with no problems and lounged around the house the rest of the day...it just felt like a crampy period for about 5 hrs...and slept through the night with no problems.
I have had the Mirena inserted for over a month now. My GYN used anesthesia during the insertion process. I didn't feel a thing. However, I experienced terrible cramping and bleeding for over two weeks. Now, I'm feeling great even though I get a little dizzy at times. I'm happy with my decision and woud recommend it.
I've had my Mirena for about a year and a half and so far I've been very pleased. I had it inserted 2 mo after giving birth and while the insertion was a little uncomfortable it was nothing I couldn't handle. I had pretty strong cramps after insertion that lasted about a day but not anything like giving birth!! I unfortunately still do get periods but they are very light and last about 4 days. I have actually noticed an increase of my sex drive!! When I was on orthotri-cyclen I never wanted to have sex, now I feel like my old self. As far as weight lose goes, I'm still thicker than before my pregnancy but I have been able to lose some weight. If your looking for a birth control option that requires little effort I say go for it!
Hi I'm 24 married and I have 2 kids My husband and I want 1 more but in 3 years, I am really sensitive to BC pills because of my GERD. I have seen many complaints on this website referring to side effects and how awful the procedure is. I think my only advise to anyone considering this option, would be do the research and talk with your doctor and really understand the procedure of insurtion. It is not a pleasant thing and if you haven't had at least 1 child it makes it more difficult to insert which really means more painful. I think that having the mirena put in hurt less than giving birth. For me I have had no side effects and was able to hop of the table right afterwards. I have tried everything in means of BC and I became Pregnant twice while using birth control. This seemed to be the only method I havent tried and had the least ammount of chance in getting pregnant. As with any medication you need to weigh out the pros and cons
i have had the mirena for 21 months now i am varyy happy with it i would suggust it to many people i just would like every one to know that having the mirena dosnt make you gain weight that is all in your head if you think that way because have not gain any weight that i didnt put on myself now losing weight is hard because it seems that when you have the mirena put in you pretty much cant lose weight i think but if you lose the weight from having a baby or you are happy with your self then have it done that my opinion.
well i have only had mirena since yesterday. the thing im worried about is it being pulled out while having sex. i was wondering if anyone culd shine some light on that for me and let me know how this has worked for them. also can the guy feel it in there to?
well i have only had mirena since yesterday. the thing im worried about is it being pulled out while having sex. i was wondering if anyone culd shine some light on that for me and let me know how this has worked for them. also can the guy feel it in there to?
After completing almost the full 5 year time on Mirena, I fell like I should pass on a few complaints. Yes, the Mirena IUD kept me confidently unpregnant, which is huge. But it also seemed to lead quite quickly to a substantial weight gain (approximately 20 pounds), and absolutely poisonous PMS. After reading quite a bit about other women's experiences with this birth control form, it seems to me our concerns are being dismissed because we are generally (after several children, for the most part) considered in the "perimenopausal" age bracket. Think seriously before signing up for this expensive birth control, and if you experience increased weight gain/PMS/depression please take your symptoms seriously even if your doctor does not.
I got my Mirena IUD a little over a year ago and have had no problems. It did hurt a lot putting it in despite having the Dr. numb my cervix with an injection. The pain was mild after that-- I went back to work after having mine put in. It's very convenient and reliable, plus I have noticed that since I got it put in my sex life has improved drastically. I noticed a very large jump in my libido. I stopped getting my period the very next month and have not had it since. I get no cramps, PMS, mood swings, periods, etc. It is like a miracle device :)
I had mine put in at my 6 week check up after giving birth. I don't think I felt it at all when the doc inserted it. It only took 30 sec. that night I did have a shooting pain in my right thigh muscle and as far as furtther down the road symptoms, I do notice moddiness and some cramping along with the headaches but when I started tracking them on the calendar it coencided with when my natural period would have occured. So your body pretty much is till going through the motions without the blood.At the first sign of symtoms I just take Midol PMS for a few day and feel pretty normal. On another note I got this after my second child after having my first my periods had changed dramaticly, the cramping was sever, lower back pain that simulated early labor and headaches up the yin yang, so I'm just saying when anything diffrent goes on down there things are apt to change. Over all now that I have side effects under control it is totally worth the piece of mind!
I got the "Mirena" my husband and I thought it was going to be a GREAT thing....NOT!!!!! It gave me the WORST headaches that I have ever experienced! My hands and face constantly to go numb, I now have spotty vision, all which has occurred in the first mth. after I got the Mirena inserted. It did not hurt going in I have a high tolerance for pain, but man they should of warned me about the side effects. Not saying that this will happen to everyone because the human body is a mystery! All I say is think long and HARD before you try this product because it is not all happy like you see on the commercials!!! I am getting mine removed tomorrow! I'd rather take my chances using a condom!!
I got the "Mirena" my husband and I thought it was going to be a GREAT thing....NOT!!!!! It gave me the WORST headaches that I have ever experienced! My hands and face constantly to go numb, I now have spotty vision, all which has occurred in the first mth. after I got the Mirena inserted. It did not hurt going in I have a high tolerance for pain, but man they should of warned me about the side effects. Not saying that this will happen to everyone because the human body is a mystery! All I say is think long and HARD before you try this product because it is not all happy like you see on the commercials!!! I am getting mine removed tomorrow! I'd rather take my chances using a condom!!
I got the "Mirena" my husband and I thought it was going to be a GREAT thing....NOT!!!!! It gave me the WORST headaches that I have ever experienced! My hands and face constantly to go numb, I now have spotty vision, all which has occurred in the first mth. after I got the Mirena inserted. It did not hurt going in I have a high tolerance for pain, but man they should of warned me about the side effects. Not saying that this will happen to everyone because the human body is a mystery! All I say is think long and HARD before you try this product because it is not all happy like you see on the commercials!!! I am getting mine removed tomorrow! I'd rather take my chances using a condom!!
I used this product for over two years and was at first excited because I didn't have to do anything. I just had birthcontrol that worked and that I didn't have to maintain...completely lazy birthcontrol. I was also glad because my periods went from light to non at all. It was great and the only complaint was that my boyfriend could feel it during sex. Then I started breaking out little by little over the two years and then by the end of my use I was getting horrible acne. Awful and I have never had this in my life. I'm 28 and to have acne at my age was devastating. I got it out and am still clearing out all the extra androgens I got from the Mirena IUD. I would not recommend it at all. I haven't found the perfect birthcontrol but trust me this is not it.
I went in to get the Mirena put in and it was very painful. I had lots of cramping and once that went away i had sharp shooting pains. I went back to my OB four days later b/c I knew it couldn't be in right - I told her I was miserable and to take it out. After some searching so told me she couldn't find the stings to get it out. At that point if I wanted it out I would have to go in for surgery so she could insert a camera and find it. So more then a week later I was scheduled for this procedure. The IUD had perforated my uterus and was tangled in my intestines - yes it was very painful. So while my OB was in there I had my tubes tied and I feel much better hormonally. I'm here to say the IUD can create more problems then it's worth and consider all your options.
At my 6wk postpartum check up I opted to have the Mirena placed so I was scheduled to have one. I was given instructions to take an ibuprofen 1 hour before the appointment. I had heard horror stories about how painful it was. I was actually a bit scared, but I took the ibuprofen as instructed. The speculum was the worst part for me.. Always is. I really thought it was going to hurt. All I felt was a little pressure and then a slight cramp but that was it. I had menstrual cramps that hurt worse than having the Mirena inserted. Actually, having a pap is more painful. Its only been a week but so far I'm liking it. I had slight spotting for the first 24 hours and I had a little lower back pain for about a hour. I was told it was completely normal. I'll update again at a later date. FYI: You're supposed to cramp. Its the uterus' natural reaction. You're having something shoved up in your junk. Of course your uterus is going to want to get it out.
Instalation - insertion, whatever was painful super super painful. that ended - there was no bleeding for about a week then spotting and really bad piercing cramps again - so bad I had to get up from the dinner table to walk around. That never happened before - or since. Once those cramps ended - which took about another week there's been no more cramping. I keep bleeding though. It hasn't stopped for 3 weeks now I think? I swe the doctor again - he said to wait till I've had it in 2 months but 2 months is enough - if it doesn't stop by then I should get it taken out. I love the convienence of it but I guess if it doesn't work for me it doesn't work. Also I've never had such stinky privates before in my life - I feel like I shower constantly soaping up at least twice but I still stink. ewww. my boyfriend's being a sport but I think he's over it too... Hopeful for a perfect solution.
I have had my Mirena IUD for 13 months. It wasn't that bad when I had it put in, however I would recommend taking some ibuprofen or something before you go to get it. I had some light spotting for the first few months, but after that my preiods stopped all together. I cannot take the pill because I am sensitive to the hormones and had some difficulty getting used to the light dose of hormones in the IUD. I have not experienced any problems until lately. I went about 9 months without any problems and, as of late, have been experiencing severe moodiness and light to moderate cramping. I got this one because of the light-to-no periods when compared to the heavy periods with the copper IUD. If I were to do it over again, I think I would go with the no-hormone IUD. Anyone have similar problems?
Pros: Nothing to remember, good for 5 years, may eliminate periods within 3 months Cons: Weight gain, pain during/immediately after insertion,
I HAVE A LOSS OF LIBIDO AND MOOD SWINGS,BLEEDING EVERY OTHER DAY ALTHOUGH I AM TOLD THIS WILL SETTLE AFTER 3 MONTHS. i HAVE BEEN GETTING BAD HEADACHES, PUT ON A BIT OF WEIGHT BUT APART FROM THAT IT'S BEEN OKAY. HAS ANYONE ELSE EXPERIENCED LOSS OF LIBIDO WITH THIS COIL?
Great Easy Birthcontrol When my Mirena was inserted I felt some cramping (labor-like). The pain was bearable and did not last long. For the next week I felt more cramping (period-like). I experienced a light constant bleed for about a month. That tapered off. I experienced very light sporatic bleeding for the next six months. My periods then stopped. That was great! I've had my Mirena for a few years now and have no ill side effects. It works well for me. The pill makes me evil and everything else is not hassle free. I will choose Mirena for the rest of my fertile days :)
Couldn't keep it. Before going to the GYN, I took some Vicodin for the pain. Once I got there, the doctor inserted the forceps, inserted a sound to measure my uterus (cramp), clamped my cervix into place (sting), then inserted the IUD (LABOR PAINS!!!). I was able to grit my teeth and bear it, and it was finally put in. Unfortunately, I suffered a reaction (which happens to less then 1% of women) - I nearly fell off the table, had to be held up by my husband, had an urge to curl up on the floor, got sick to my stomach, began to drip sweat, got really cold and began to shake, and nearly passed out. The pain was so bad (even on top of the Vicodin) that I had to be given a double dose of another prescription painkiller. When I finally got home, my legs hurt so bad that I had to keep walking in order to keep from crying. The pain went away within a day. The IUD is fine - it doesn't hurt during sex, there's rarely any cramping, and I plan to keep it in. I have been bleeding for nearly three weeks now, though. And I will not, EVER, have another inserted. I would rather have five more children. Once this is out, that's it. By my PERSONAL experience, I'd say, KEEP SWALLOWING THEM PILLS! UPDATE-- I've had the IUD for nearly a year now, and I'm still displeased with it. Although I do not have a period, I cramp often, and at times sex hurts. That is, if I even want sex. It's hard for me to become aroused now, and even harder to reach orgasm. Even though the memory of the pain has receeded, I still wouldn't chose to do this again. It was just too much trouble, and now I'm terrified to have it taken out! UPDATE-- Only eleven months after having it put in, I removed it myself. I wanted it out THEN, and since it was the middle of the night, out it came. I'm glad it's gone.
Never Again! I used Mirena for 1 year, and I gained 30 lbs during that time period. My skin looked terrible. Overall I just did not feel well. My OB said it was because Mirena releases a hormone. We switched and now I'm using Paragard. The procedure is a little painful, but I was able to handle it. Now I'm trying to get the weight off and hopefully get back to normal.
ooooh boy i got my ius this morning, side from the bad cramps i had when they put it in, and a few hours after i got home, everything seems to be perfect. i had no bleeding and now i have no pain.. i heard it is unusual for someone to have an experience like mine cuz i had no sucessful child births and they didnt insert it during my period.. i just wanted to say if people reacted well with the depo shot aside from the weight gain, they shouldnt have much problems with mirena, as told by my ob/gyn
I had a terrible time with Mirena I had the mirena inserted in May 2006 and just had constant stomach aches and migraine headaches ever since. I have been unable to swim, do much walking, Ive not been able to do any other sports as my stomach has been cramping really badly. Its just been like really bad period pains all the time and sometimes the pain was so severe that I thought I might pass out. The worst thing was that when they tried to remove it the dr couldn't do it- the hospital consultant couldn't do it and so I ended up having an operation to remove it. They don't tell you that actually it is common for people to have this removed by op - the only other person I know who has had it had to have hers removed by op too. Not as rare as they say.
ABSOLUTELY HATED IT!!!!! Having high blood pressure my obgyn recommended this "marvelous" little thing called a Mirena IUD instead of the pill. All the protection of the pill but without the side effects. No pills...no periods...no cramps... Sounds great doesn't it?! Don't fall for it! First, yes the insertion was extremely painful not to mention the bad cramps that plagued me for the following 2 or more days. Oh but it doesn't stop there...I cramped on and off EVERY day for the 7 months it was in! Oh and about the "no periods"? I BLED EVERY SINGLE DAY FOR SEVEN MONTHS!!!! When i wasn't having a full period (which occurred every 10-15 days) I was continuously spotting. And those were just a few of the "minor" side effects... My skin broke out worse in those 7 months than my entire adolescence! I had 2 yeast infections (never had one before) Absolutely no sex drive! Vaginal dryness. Bloating and severe water retention. Headaches. And MOODY!! After seven months of this, and numerous calls to my obgyn office (who kept telling my it gets "better with time") I finally demanded that they take it out. At the office the doc tried to talk me out of having it removed saying that the bleeding and cramping could be treated by....GUESS??? Daily pills and patches!!!! Wasn't that one of the "wonderful" benefits to having an IUD was not having to do all that? And what about the other lovely side effects??!! I didn't let myself get tricked again and got it out! It wasn't nearly as painful having it removed. Slight discomfort but it lasted literally a second. I have been on birth control pills, Depo, Lupron, and none have been as bad as the IUD! You may ask if i had any benefits from the IUD...well, I didn't get pregnant. Yasmin birth control pills are the best!
ABSOLUTELY HATED IT!!!!! Having high blood pressure my obgyn recommended this "marvelous" little thing called a Mirena IUD instead of the pill. All the protection of the pill but without the side effects. No pills...no periods...no cramps... Sounds great doesn't it?! Don't fall for it! First, yes the insertion was extremely painful not to mention the bad cramps that plagued me for the following 2 or more days. Oh but it doesn't stop there...I cramped on and off EVERY day for the 7 months it was in! Oh and about the "no periods"? I BLED EVERY SINGLE DAY FOR SEVEN MONTHS!!!! When i wasn't having a full period (which occurred every 10-15 days) I was continuously spotting. And those were just a few of the "minor" side effects... My skin broke out worse in those 7 months than my entire adolescence! I had 2 yeast infections (never had one before) Absolutely no sex drive! Vaginal dryness. Bloating and severe water retention. Headaches. And MOODY!! After seven months of this, and numerous calls to my obgyn office (who kept telling my it gets "better with time") I finally demanded that they take it out. At the office the doc tried to talk me out of having it removed saying that the bleeding and cramping could be treated by....GUESS??? Daily pills and patches!!!! Wasn't that one of the "wonderful" benefits to having an IUD was not having to do all that? And what about the other lovely side effects??!! I didn't let myself get tricked again and got it out! It wasn't nearly as painful having it removed. Slight discomfort but it lasted literally a second. I have been on birth control pills, Depo, Lupron, and none have been as bad as the IUD! You may ask if i had any benefits from the IUD...well, I didn't get pregnant. Yasmin birth control pills are the best!
It is better than having to take a pill every day. I was very disappointed with the bleeding after insertion. I bled like I was having a light period every day for about 3 months. After that I spotted every few days for 2 more months. I also developed an ovarian cyst right after insertion. I have never had "female problems" before in my life. My periods have become regular again but I now experience cramping and headaches. As per my doctor, things will get better soon. I hope so.
Hidden side effects ! The product did work it prevented pregnancy! It did however have side effects, of stubborn weight gain (diet and rigourous exercise did not shift weight as before insetion- gradual weight gain!) Problem skin and loss of hair, loss of libido, moodiness and a fullness or bloated feeling. consider the side effects as it has been a bigger impact on lifestyle due to the side effects than the benefit. Pleased to have it removed.
Up and down After a painful insertion (much like labor pains but over within 5 minutes), I went home to mild cramping that came and went for three weeks and mild bleeding. This part sucked and I wondered why the hell I did it. Oh yeah, the money part of it was one reason, not forgetting pills was another, and low hormone levels because I occasionally smoke was another. Since then, I have had minor cramping on rare occassions but have not had a period since! That part, complete bonus. Think of all the tampon money I am saving too! Stinky part? Bad acne each month- large cystic types. I am considering having this thing yanked because of it. I am close to 40 and would really love to have a clear complexion for once. And I have spent so much of my savings on skin care to help with this issue and it is not working and making me broke again. Definitely easy and can't feel it in place. But yes, the insertion stunk and I needed to lay down after that for a night. And my doctor didn't give me anything. His wife currently uses this method so I figured if it was good for her, would be good for me too.
I was lied to - were you? Prior to using this method I had bad experiences with birth control pills - mood swings, loss of libido, acne, ect. I told my doctor about this and told her I was not interested in hormones, but she insisted that there would be none of these side effects with Mirena. She lied. I have felt like I am constantly PMSing, with mood swings and acne and no sex drive. And though I have very light bleeding now, it is almost constant and extremely unpredictable. I also have noticed that I have gotten sick a lot lately and I never used to. I did some intensive research and found that the hormone contained in Mirena suppresses the immune system to some degree. There are a ton of positive reviews of this new contraceptive method out there, but really, there is no research on the long term side effects and most reviewers downplay the"uncommon" side effects that I have experienced. Since no real research has been done specifically on the side effects women experience from the treatment, I find it hare to understand why researchers claim them to be "uncommon." It is certainly possible that women are experiencing these side effects and not spontaneously volunteering the information to researrchers as they are not making the conection themselves. I am having it removed.
Hello, drugs please I really do love my IUD. I haven't had children and don't plan to so a long term non-surgical option really works for me and my husband. My friend had the Mirena inserted as well and she got a local anesthetic. I wish I had known of that option or at elast brought someone to drive me home. After the inital insertion while the gyn tried to cut the string she pulled it out and had to get a new one and try again. I decided if I didn't get it over with i wouldn't go back. I nearly passed out while driving home, cold sweats and shaking. But on the ups no periods since insertion, no face face, or mood swings. Hurray! I was on BCP for 13 years and it is a welcome relief to not have to do something else daily.
Hated it. Like the others who rated this, I'll add it that it was VERY painful to insert. However, I was not warned of this until I was on the table and was asked if I had taken any Ibuprophen. Uh, No? The major cramps abated with in 20 minutes for me. Minor cramps for 3 days... but I had still some cramping every day I had it in. I also felt very "premenstrual" the whole time. Kind of bloated, crampy & weird. I am also in the minority who could feel the IUD inside me. If I turned a certain way, or sat a certain way, or laid all stretched out, I could feel it poking me. I found all these things to be very irritating and had the thing taken out today. It comes out like a breeze. I'm going for Nuva Ring now. I like its ratings much better!
The Good and The Ugly I received my IUD yesterday...Let me tell you I was not prepared for the pain. I had taken a vicodine before the procedure, but that was not at all helpful, they need to give epidurals I wanted to jump off the table after she measured my uterus. But I toughed it out but the pain was so bad, when she left I cried I barely walked out of the office. I have problems with side effects and pills so this was the best choice for me. But when it comes out another one will not be going in. That night I felt like I was going to give birth. Every 10 min I had a very strong contraction. I had to take 2 vicodine every 3 hours to get any kind of relief. Today the cramping is not as often. I have mild cramping ALL THE TIME and Severe cramps twice an hour. I had spoke to the Doctor, she said that some women that have severe cramping with there periods, will have worse cramping with an IUD, it should subside in the next two days. She has perscribed more pain pills, to get me through it, and if it doesn't subside I have to have a ultrsound. The idea of an IUD is wonderful, but the pain for the week is not. They need to start taking these things into consideration and give women something strong before they go in, especially if they already have bad cramping. I am glad I did the IUD, but also very upset at the pain I had to go through. If I was given a stronger pain releiver, I might do it again, but vicodine was not enough. I will keep you all up to date!
Confused I want to say this is way better then taking the pill. After I had my second child my physician recommended the iud, its like a credit card it goes with you everywhere, no hassel of trying to remember to take the pill everyday. I always had a problem during stressful times of remembering to take the pills. She also pleaded for me to be patient in the begining because of the adjustment process, bleeding, cramping...etc. I tough it out....it wasn't that bad during insertion....mild cramps and menstrual cycle was not really stable till about the third month. After a year I noticed feeling depressed about my weight being that I had gained those 50 pounds with previous pregnancy. I decided to start focusing on losing weight, work outs and dieting. Finally three months of dedication I lost 20 pounds. Long story short, my problems started a little after a year....severe back pains. You know the menstrual cycle ones, all down my legs to my vagina. Real depression....like not even in the mood to work out. I haven't gained the weight back, due to still watching what I eat, but I feel like I'm mentally fighting it. When I feel like I have a little good mood flowing in me, right away I'm dancing or doing cardio luckily I'm a stay home mom during the day and work nites.
IUD almost perfect I have hade my IUD (Mirena) in for over a year and a half. I have not became pregnant. It hasn't affected my libido. I haven't gained any weight. There are 2 problems I have with it. The first is that it was painful to put in place. My midwife put it in at the office. But the pain is less than giving birth. You have to check that it is still in place every month (which is not difficult). My periods are very light. The main problem that I have is that my skin has breakouts. Although, I have had breakouts before this was in, the Mirena is not preventing them. So I am considering another type of birth control for that reason only. If there is nothing without all of the possible side effects I will stick with this method for 5 years.
Mirena-IUD This is the best birth control you can use! There is nothing to remember every day and there have been no side effects for me. It has been said that while in use it is more reliable than having your tubes tied. It can not be felt and I also have the advantage of not having periods. It is highly underrated.
I have used Nuva Ring twice. The first time was 10 years ago after the birth of my oldest. Had to stop due to insurance issue and tried it out again after the birth of my third baby last year. Used this for about 4-5 months and have experienced terrible side effects. It started with a burning sensation in my vagina. It was pretty consistent and worse when I applied a new one every month. Didn't take long for my libido to be shot, extreme dryness to set in causing cracking in the vulva. Lots of pain and inflammation after sex, migraines (which I was never prone to prior to taking this), weight gain and strange sensation in my leg. Really loved the convenience of the medication, and it managed to keep me protected but these side effects are terrible. I literally just threw it out because I can't take it anymore.
I decided on this method because I was over 35 and needed safer low-dose estrogen options. I also decides to use the ring continually to avoid period hassles. The first bad side effect was SEVERE anxiety. It was to the point where I would physically twitch and I was always on edge. I gained weight quickly...19 lbs in a month with no change in eating habits. Week 3 I started bleeding. And that bleeding NEVER stopped. After 5 weeks of bleeding that I was told would eventually go away I opted for a tubal. During my tubal proceedure they discovered I had several fibroids and stage 3 endometriosis. Oddly enough, I had neither of these noted in my ultrasound just before I started on the ring. Was it related to the ring? I am not sure but it seems to coincidental. Thankful to be done with it! It did do the job.
I was on Nuvaring for two different periods of time in the last 5 years and both times were great. I loved Nuvaring and had no complaints. After taking a break from birth control, I went back on Nuvaring beginning of December. 3 weeks later, I had symptoms of a UTI and was treated for it, but the culture came back negative. The next month, in the same time of my cycle, I again had UTI symptoms and was treated for it - but again did NOT have a UTI when tested. In addition, I started experiencing vaginal dryness and low sex drive - two things I've NEVER had before. 3rd month on the ring, and I get the UTI symptoms AGAIN with NO UTI! I was also STD free. Did a little digging and found out others on Nuvaring had the exact same thing happen to them. I took the ring out and am done with it - and I haven't had a UTI symptom since. There's not a ton of info about this, yet, but it's just too weird of a coincidence
LOVE Nuvaring. I was breastfeeding my son and had to be on the pill to avoid a drop on my supply. I couldn't wait to get back on the ring. I've been on it a week and my skin already looks clearer!!!
Well to start it off, I wanted to find an effective birth control as I didn't have a very good experience with the pills. My close friend recommended the ring to me and I decided to give it a try. I'll admit that it is very good at preventing pregnancy, but I noticed a lot of changes. I get bad cramps even before my period begins which is after I take out the ring. I'm the type of person that is restless and likes to do many things. Never have I ever been able to take naps throughout the day and go to sleep at early times. On the Nuva ring though, I sleep way too much. My acne has gotten significantly worse, and I've gained about 20 pounds alone over the course of four months. It made me more anxious and sad. It makes me cry at things I wouldn't normally cry about. My stomach is always bloated. There is vaginal itching and less sex drive. I had a higher sex drive before going on the ring. It's hard to have sex with my boyfriend because my vagina does not lubricate as it's supposed to. There was one instance that after I had sex, I had irritation around my vagina and I panicked. I hate it and I took it out yesterday. Never again. I'll just stick to condoms or try something else.
I have been on the nuva ring for 3 months. At first I loved it! I never had to remember to take a pill and it was SO easy! That was until I realized what this ring was doing to me. I suffered severe UTIs during the three months on this drug. Every time I had sex, I would be up the entire next night in agonizing pain and irritation. It got so bad that I never wanted to have sex with my boyfriend out of fear of UTI. I just took out this ring after yet another night of no sleep. Can't wait to feel normal again!
This is the best birth control I've ever used. It's easy to use, reliable and it's the only contraception that has improved my sex life instead of decreasing it. I would recommend it to anyone.
I'm 22 and I was on the Nuva Ring for a little over two years but sadly I had to switch out. During my time on it I loved it! Super convenient, very minimal weight gain, acne decreased and minimal side effects on my emotions. However, it did affect my overall vagina's immune system and I started having a lot of irritation, pain, yeast and bacterial vaginousis infections and overall discomfort. At first it was assumed that I had a high pH so I tried everything to lower it and boost my inmune system. However, I was advised to stopp using the Nuva ring for almost 3 months and my symptoms and recurrent infections went completely away. I am sad I had to switch out but I do highly recommend if the Nuva ring besides my experience.
I've tried many pills from the time I was 15/16 due to PCOS. (I am currently 23) As I got older the pill was working against me, between acne, terrible depression during PMS, terrible bloating and just not being happy with my cycles. I have a friend that talked to me about the Ring, something I wouldn't think in a million years I would try. I've been on it for 6 months and I have to say it has changed my life completely. I get my period when it's due there's no waiting or guessing, I have mild PMS symptoms aside from mood swings but bipolar depression plays a role in that for me. Intamicy with my boyfriend is also more enjoyable due to cysts being under control (less pain) .Every medication works differently for everyone but I would definitely give the ring a try especially if you are on other medications, pills tend to have higher amounts of hormones due to it having to pass through your entire body ..the ring is a local contraceptive. Nothing is a magic bullet but the Nuvaring is pretty close to it. Hope this helps someone!
I was on the Nuvaring from the age of 20-32. I can't say anything but amazing things about this birth control. I was on the pill prior to the ring, and had issues with the emotional up's and downs with the traditional pill. My doc put me on the ring and I took it out every 28 days. No side effects, shorter period (was 6-8 days before the ring, then 2-3 days, yay!) You can also take it out during sex, as long as you wash it with cold water and insert within an hour or two (check with your doc, but that's what was conveyed to me & I never had any issues ; i.e. unwanted pregnancies.) The only reason I'm no longer on it now is because my doc says due to my age, its time for an IUD. Oh, the joys of aging! Loved the ring, and had absolutely ZERO side effects! Everyone's body is different, however, I hope some read this and consider what I felt was the easiest, most effective form of birth control I personally found as a woman! Best of Luck!
The NUVARING is amazing!!!!! I haven't experience any side effects except for weight gain which has always been a problem for me and contraceptives. My acne cleared up amazingly once I started taking Nuvaring. I would highly recommend Nuvaring to anyone. It's so easy to use.
My experience with Nuvaring has been great! The only side effects I've had is mild cramping and breast tenderness that improved after the first month and now only happens on occasion. There are some good apps for tracking removal and insert dates so remembering that is very easy and much better than trying to remember a pill everyday. Definitely a great birth control option to try out.
Honestly, at first I liked this birth control method and then later it started to suck because i began to have side effects. My sex drive decreased by so much, I would get nauseous, headaches & i'd feel tired EVERY TIME (in other words it made me so lazy & sleepy). I decided to take it off and i've never felt any better. It would also get me depressed & gave me anxiety which was a no go. Besides that, this was a good method and it helped me stay protected!
I've used NuvaRing for a couple years and have had a good experience. Had some breakthrough bleeding the first time I tried to skip my period, but now I'm able to skip without any issues. Felt mildly irritable for the first month but it was manageable. The feeling subsided on its own. Unlike other reviewers, I haven't had any issues with dryness; my experience actually has been quite the opposite. Tried the Pill numerous times over 13 years, but between my busy schedule and sensitive stomach, it's not for me. NuvaRing user for life now!
Really enjoy how convenient the Nuva ring is but the cramping and tender breasts has gone on 3 months now. If it doesn't subside after this 3rd month I'm going to need a new contraceptive.
I absolutely love the Nuvaring. I'm terrible at remembering to take a pill at the same time every day, and birth control pills often upset my stomach and made me horribly nauseated; sometimes I'd even throw up. Nuvaring hasn't made me nauseated at all, in fact I haven't noticed any side effects. No headaches, no acne, no mood swings, no cramps, nothing that I've noticed so far. Inserting and removing the Nuvaring is super easy and I can't feel it at all. I can even have sex with it in and it isn't uncomfortable for me or my boyfriend. I have no complaints with the Nuvaring and am thrilled at how much more convenient it is than having to take a pill every day. Nuvaring has a bad reputation, but in reality the risk of blood clots is only very slightly increased and pregnancy and the postpartum period are both much more dangerous with regard to blood clots than the Nuvaring is. By keeping you from getting pregnant, it actually lowers your risk of getting a blood clot.
I was very skeptical to try Nuvaring out after seeing so many negative reviews. I had taken Junel 1/20 a few years back and would HIGHLY recommend it. Nuvaring just wasn't it for me. I had the device in place for no more than 5 days and had more mental breakdowns that I've had in the past 3 months, not to mention the absurd amount of vomit and nausea. I'm not saying Nuvaring isn't for everyone, but it definitely didn't make me feel good. I wasn't 100% positive the Nuvaring could have effected me so hard so quick, but after only 10 hours of having it out I already feel brand new. If you know you aren't feeling like your normal self after taking ANY FORM of medication/contraception, discontinue use and call your doctor right away!!!
After having an IUD for 6 years (loved for the first 5) I was ready to try something else a bit less non-invasive. Idk, it just started to weird me out. The first month with the NuvaRing was okay. Very easy to use, experienced some itching but it went away within a few days, and nausea here and there and spotting but otherwise I liked it. Didn't feel weird. Had my period after the three weeks, short and mild. Woo! Then the second month... I pulled it out at the end of the first week. The first part of the week I had dryness. Then I had tenderness to the touch (ouch). Then I had constant itching that kept me up through the night. Finally my husband told me to just take it out. About 95% of the itching had subsided within an hour though, I still had a little but not nearly as bad. I also was experiencing nausea off and on. If it wasn't for the vaginal discomfort I would've probably got through it but man... I just couldn't. I never felt off or weird, and I've known other women who really like this form of BC. I have been wanting to go hormone BC free for awhile now m, so this might be a good time to try it, and my husband is supportive.
This was really weird for me. I've been researching this birth control because I have been experiencing rapid weight loss! I don't know what I should be doing about this. I have always been chunky but now I am down 14 lbs in 3 weeks, not sure if that is a normal reaction!
I was on the NuvaRing for a whole year before switching to the pill because of the big downside to this drug, mood swings. I would get mad at people for no reason and be hostile towards my boyfriend. Other than that the NuvaRing was great! My sex drive was through the roof, acne cleared up a bit, no weight gain, and no babies! Be cautious about switching contraceptions thought. It has caused my hair to shed like crazy. I'm not sure if this is because of going off of NuvaRing or because of being on the pill. It has been about six months since the switch so just keep that in mind if you're thinking about going off of it.
I've used the nuvaring for over 8 years. Before that pills and an IUD. I love it. The pills always gave made me sick the first 30 days. I really have no side effects unless I'm just not relating them to the ring. It's super easy and I will use it until my husband gets a vasectomy
I have been on the NuvaRing for 6 months now and I absolutely love it. After going through around 5-6 different types of pills, my doctor and I decided to try the NuvaRing. Immediately after switching I noticed that I no longer had nausea in the morning, swollen feet, bad water retention, or headaches. I didn't gain any weight and even shed a few pounds! The only complaint I have is that it gives me light acne, but I naturally have clear skin. On Nuva, I get a pimple or two once every couple of weeks. Not horrible, just need to wash my face now.
I was an early bloomer (period at 9) and diagnosed with PCOS at 16. My gynecologist (bless her little heart) threw the pill at me. After FOUR YEARS of hell on the pill, my new physician switched me to NuvaRing and I will sing it's praises. Lighter periods, no spotting, no nausea, no bloating, no weird mood swings. It slowed my (facial) hair growth, stopped the cysts, and I immediately shed weight. Only problems I have is I'm a little more “dry” than usual and my hellacious acne is acting up, but honestly it's better than cold turkey or the pill.
I have been on nuvaring for 4 months now. The first 2 months I had severe nausea to the point where I had to pull over on the side of the road to vomit. I got acne breakouts which I found really hard to deal with as my skin has always been flawless and rarely ever got a pimple. The nausea has since gone away for the most part and I just get it on occasion now, I still get the acne breakouts but for me it's only really a small Price to pay in the scheme of things. I would recommend the nuvaring despite the two side effects I have had as its easy to use as you don't need to remember to take a pill everyday, It does its job as a contraceptive, you can't feel it and my periods are lighter with no cramping.
I got on nuvaring because of how convenient the birth control is compared to other alternatives but getting on this birth control was a TERRIBLE decision. Ive been on it prior, about a year ago, for a year and a half. This year I got back on it for 5 months and finally connected my severe depression and suicidal thoughts to this medicine. I had the worst anxiety of my life and cried every single day. I would freak out and think the worst of every single situation, which is not normal for me at all, been off of it for 2 months now and i feel 2642192043x better!
I only had the nuva ring for three weeks & i instantly started getting acne. the second week i noticed i was so lazy & depressed. I started to gain weight (never in my life have i gained weight so fast, i have always been very slim never weighing more than 110lbs) I also started getting very sharp pains/cramps & my vagina would irritate so bad. It made my vagina so dry that sex was not enjoyable & I had no desire for it (I have always had a high sex drive) Honestly it was the worst, i took it out and I feel back to normal again.
I was so happy to use this easy contraception method, but a few days after putting it in, my vagina got itchy. I thought I would put up with it, but then my discharge got really bad. Also, the itchiness was so bad that I could not longer sleep at night. I removed today, my vagina has never been itchy before.
Nuvaring was extremely convenient as compared to birth control pills. I did not notice any side effects in the first few months. I used Nuvaring for 20 months before deciding to switch. One bad side effect I had was seemingly more cellulite. I did not gain weight at all, not even one lb, but hormones have a direct effect on cellulite production and I believe that happened to me. The worst side effect was the effect on my sex drive. My boyfriend and I really struggled because I no longer had any interest and had difficulty with my body's lubrication system not working the way it used to. I am hoping it gets better now that I am off of it.
Saw a lot of bad reviews for this so thought I'd leave one as I've had such a great experience with it. I've had the ring inserted now for three weeks and had no uncomfortable side effects! I've had a few very mild cramps but nothing really uncomfortable. I've found with this app it's really straightforward to see when I need to remove it, contraceptive wise it's been the best thing I've tried. I was on Cerazette for a few years however i developed abnormal cells at the opening of my cervix due to having too much progesterone in my system. I then tried Marvelon and Yasmin but they made me so constipated and I felt so sick I couldn't function for weeks. Because the NuvaRing is inserted vaginally the hormones are more or less confined to that area. The NuvaRing is one of the lowest dose contraceptives as the hormones are already where they need to be. I would definitely recommend it.
This is honestly the worst control I've ever taken. I tried this a couple years ago due to the convenience of it and got extremely depressed and had thoughts of suicide I was going through a hard time in my life so I didn't know if it was the Ring or just my life I stopped taking it I quit birthcontrol overall for over a year and was perfectly fine... we'll just recently I decided to go back on birth control because I do not want a child but I'm so bad at taking pills I decided to give the ring another shot because it was covered by my insurance, worst mistake I fell back into a depression my anxiety is so over the top I'm so paranoid and I cry all the time for no reason I've decided to stop taking it after 2 months and feel so much better already. Although this form of contraception is convenient it is very dangerous to your mental health I would not recommend
This was the worst drug ever.... Health department not very knowledable about how dangerous this is for someone with depression. Causes such sever depression and anxiety..... There should be more knowledge to the medical community before distributing this drug
I had been using Nuvaring for 5 years. Very easy to use, however after the 4th year I started experiencing pain after having intercourse with my partner. It was so painful after (sometimes during). Almost like having a bad yeast infection with discharge. I didn't know the Nuvaring was causing this discomfort. So I would dread having sex. It almost ruined my relationship. I would come up with excuses not to have sex because I knew the next day I'd be in pain. We tried switching condoms thinking I might be allergic to the latex, but still painful. I mentioned it to my doctor and I switched to the patch. Every since switching I haven't experienced any pain. I feel like myself again. I must say the Nuvaring was great when I first started.
I have been on the Nuva ring for 4 almost 5 years now and i have noticed I'm gaining weight now and my acne is coming with a vengeance idk if it's because I'm older now almost 25 but i use to not have issues with it and my periods literally last two days sometimes 3 if it's 3 it's very light flow which is awesome! Iv also noticed iv been getting more discharge than usual than when i first started and it's getting frustrating. Iv went to my dr everything looks “good down there” so i've Been tempted to go with a different birth control but my dr thinks i should stick with it so not really sure bc i do love it but I'm have some side effects I'm not use to and I'm about at my wits end with it. I just loved how clear my skin was my first years using it but now it's not really doing anything but keeping me from getting pregnant lol which is the goal but long term use with this idk maybe i should try something else and then later on use the Nuva ring again because i really have loved it for so long! I recommend for ladies out there i know everyone reacts differently but it has been awesome for the most part!
I was hospitalised after two-three weeks of using the nuva ring. I have no past experience of headaches or migraine, nor family history. But after one week of insertion I had a severe migraine with aura and could not speak or see for three hours. From this point I had a permanent headache, suffered migraines, vision and speech issues and nosebleeds. I was advised by my gynaecologist to have a check up and was then hospitalised for three days. The symptoms have continued since taking it out and due to vision issues and daily migraine I am unable to work currently. I removed the ring due to side effects and because the Neurologist advised I was at high risk of stroke. I am a sporty fit 32yo who eats a very healthy diet. I do not drink or smoke. The ring is easy to use but the risks of side effects outway the advantages.
Used Nuvaring for about 1-2 years. It was amazing at first. Acne cleared up, hair growth slowed down, no pregnancies. It was easy application. Super convenient because I didn't have to remember to take anything. Well I decided I wanted to stop taking medications and do everything naturally. Took the ring out in June haven't had a period sense and it's currebtly October. I had terrible headaches while using the ring. Would get weird stabby feelings depending on how I was laying when having sex. It was a mess. Now that I have taken the rung out the obgyn says I have PCOS. My acne is a mess, hair is growing on face rapidly.
The best contraception I ever had. Easy to use - keeping it for 3 weeks while I was always forgetting to take pills. It's was great not to wake up at night with the feeling oh I forgot pill! Or questioning in dream if I took one ! My body retain water but the same as on any hormones - it is manageable. I don't have bleeding in between the periods like on other pills (esp with 9one hormon in it) my moods swing aren't as bad as without them hormones. I recommend it.
My periods are awful. I have a diagnosis of endometriosis and have tried the pill, (microgynon and loestrin) as well as the mirena coil. None of the above agreed with me and the IUD made me gain weight and become extremely irritable/moody/depressed. Been on nuvaring now since August 2018. I am 30 years old and using it as birth control primarily. It has fallen out a couple of times but it's easily put back in. I have not noticed any side effects other than a bit of nausea and related headaches as well as an increase in vaginal discharge although I am able to cope with this. I would recommend this to any woman who feels at a loss for birth control when doctors in the U.K. seem to only offer the pill or mirena coil/ implant. I have not noticed weight gain as that was a huge issue for me previously.
Nuvaring is very easy to use and is very convenient. It has never come out during sex and doesn't bother my partner. My periods are short and easy. The only downside is that I've been on it for several years and have noticed more and more that it has killed my sex drive. Probably going to switch in the near future for that reason only.
SO I have been on birth control for 8 years. I've tried the pill, nexplanon, and 2 years ago started taking Nuvaring. I was in love with it, so easy to use, and decreased acne and did not have mood swings or crazy weight gain (no more than usual bloating from any type of birth control that makes you retaain water more easily). BUT....I stopped taking Nuvaring because I started bleeding every time I had sex for the first time in 2 years since taking it. So after two months of this I stopped birth conrol all together. 6 months later I bleed every time I have sex and for the remainder of the time until my next period (aka all month). I've seen several doctors and no one can offer me any possibility of this besides irritation on my cervix, which most likely would have been caused from having something just hanging out next to my cervix for 2 years. I would not bother with this birth control, if I could go back I would have never started it. It sounds great and the lack of side effects are great but absolutely not worth the long term issues.
I'm writing this review as I took my Nuvaring out after 2.5 months. It didn't effect my mood too much like other oral birth control, but I had painful sex and bleed during sex since I had severe vaginal irritation. The itching and burning is still going on and I had to take the ring off. I wish i could continue using it since my PMS pain and heaviness has been lowered.
i finally found the birth control I deserve, ive been on it for four months.I was on the pill for years and dealing with spotting and horrible cramps off and on. I later found out it could have been from not taking my pills same time of day. my cramps and spotting stopped after only being on the nuvaring for a few days. I also have shorter, on time periods... for the first time in my life! this birth control is very convenient for anyone who struggles with remembering to take your bc. after I started taking nuvaring I not only had people start asking if I was losing weight, but I am also getting asked if I got my boobs done. apparently the pill was making me bloated all this time and my stomach defiantly flatted out since taking this. it does not “fall out” and I never feel it at all. i also gained sex drive. the only negatives I've had with the nuvaring is I believe it might not help me with acne as much as the pill did, I also was feeling nauseous after the very first time taking it, but haven't since.
I've been on the Nuvaring for about three years. It's been 100% effective in preventing pregnancy. My periods are right on time, each month and only last about two days. The symptoms range from mild discomfort to none at all. The two cons that the ring has is it's given me so many pimples that I never had on my cheeks. I've been breaking out consistently since I've been on this and I'm now switching to a pill simply for that reason. Also, my sex drive is definitely lower than it was previously. Other than that, it prevents pregnancy and is very easy & convenient.
I tried the Nuvaring for 3 months. I've tried the pill and the patch in the past. I was looking for something more convenient. I was wrong!!! The ring was very uncomfortable, it caused dryness and irritation. I got an infection from it and i had constant cramps. Now, i know like everything else it takes your body time to adjust. By the third month the cramps weren't as bad BUT the worst side affect was acne. Aside from when i was a teen I've never had acne problems. Once i started this birth control it was terrible. I haven't been on the nuvaring in a month and I'm still breaking out. It's caused me to get really bad scars. I will NEVER recommend this birth control to anyone! Do yourself a favor ladies, just take like the pill it's less of a headache in the long run.
Most of the reviews are from those that have only been on nuvaring for less than 2 months. I have been on it for just under 2 years and and the application of the product is simple, I had fewer headaches than with the pill, and regular, predictable periods. However, I recently connected the dots about why I lost all sex drive, why i have become so irritable and blank with just about all emotions, and why my period symptoms are so much more intense. The nuvaring has it's ups and downs like others, but for me, working fulltime with 2 kids and a husband, I can't function like this anymore. I just took out the nuvaring for the last time and will be looking into other options that will keep me feeling human.
I have been on Nuvaring for about a month and a half after being on the combined pill which gave me constant headaches, then the progestin only pill which made me feel like I was crazy. With the Nuvaring I have no headaches, and I don't think it has affected my anxiety too much, but we will see. It has however made me gain weight, have hot flashes, have extremely tender boobs, frequent urination and made me quite cranky. Hoping these symptons fade as it is the best birth control I have tried and never falls out!
This bc was great for me. The only thing I didn't like was that it gave me brown spots on my face. Otherwise I loved it. I know other women that are on it and absolutely love it too. And it did not give them brown spots on their face.
I've been on the NuvaRing for 2 months now. Very easy to insert and remove. I have noticed my appetite has increased I haven't weighed myself so not sure how many pounds I gained. My periods are much lighter the only thing I really have a problem with is I have NO sex drive and my acne got worst once I started it other than that I like NuvaRing.
I love nuvaring! It works. I do have side effects like nausea, headaches, stomach cramps. I take it out during sex. Not pregnant!
I was on Nuba ring for three years. Decided I wanted another baby. So took it out and was pregnant within months. It did slip out but you gave four hours to put it back in. Currently pregnant after having Mirena implanted in April 2017. It fell out and after I deliver (any day now) I will go back to nubs ring. I love it.
Hi, i am on the Nuvaring birth control and I've been using is to skip my menstural cycle. I've been using it continuously for about 2 months now, and i am now having severe cramping and period type flow while the ring is still in for about 8 days now. I was wondering is this is normal and what i may be able to do to stop these side effects as soon as possible.
Have been on the Nuvaring for 2 months now, and I'm changing birth controls. It's easy to put in but mine always ends up slipping out. Has come out during intercourse multiple times. Partner also said he can feel it sometimes which I feel uncomfortable with. No major side effects besides mild cramping all the time. Did notice my breast have grown in size.
This is the first birth control i tried that i fidnt have side effects on. That is until the week you are suppose to take it out. Extreme irritability, shakiness, migraines, nausea, and i have to sleep a ton. That being said my docter reccommended not taking it out and just switching it ay the end of the week it was suppose to be taken out. This eliminated the side effects but occasionally i will het hot flashes and irritablity and then i take it out for the off week to reset my hormones. Then everhthing is back to normal.
Wow so many bad reviews. I've been on NuvaRing for 2 months & it has been the best birth control for me. Our bodies are all different & I admit I was hesitant to try it at first but it literally has been the best. Baring in mind I've been on the pill, the patch, the arm implant which all gave me terrible side effects. All in all our bodies are all different so you have to keep trying different methods to see which is best for you.
It has just been a day since I've put in my Nuvaring for the first time ever. I put it in, in the evening, and in the morning whilst having sex with my boyfriend he noticed that my breasts were very swollen. This is just overnight! The ring stayed in place during sex, and neither of us could feel it, so that's nice. After that morning, throughout the whole day I've been feeling very off, and had emotional mood swings that my boyfriend and I both noticed. Closer to the evening, I was lying in bed and felt lightheaded, and felt a little nauseous. Boyfriend had to force food in me because I haven't eaten all day. But these are all mild side effects that I was warned about going into this, and they usually dissapear in a few months. Other than that, inserting it was very easy, I don't feel it, doesn't get in the way of sex, and I would definetly recommend this over oral pills, if you tend to be forgetful.
I've been using Nuvaring for 3 months for period regulation and contraception and so far it has been a very pleasant 3 months with only tolerable side effects (nausea, fatigue, and occasional dizziness) during the first month of use. During my ring free week, my period would always come exactly 3 days after I take out the ring and the period would usually last around 3-4 days. I definitely would reccommend this form of contraception for those who aren't sure whether they want an IUD but knows that they're very low maintanence to keep up with birth control pills (me haha). I'm only 20 so definitely not ready for an IUD yet! Give the nuvaring it a try, it might fit you like a glove. Hopefully for me it won't go downhill from here.
The only reason why I gave it 2 stars was because I didn't give it time to really adjust to my body I read all of the bad reviews and thought well everyone is different so I'll try anyway! I only had it in for a week 1st night extreme cramps and my heart was beating extremely fast! But I thought it was just me because I have hear disease but it wasn't. My bf could feel it during sex and when I took it out for the 2 hours for sex it was unpleasant because my stomach hurt so bad! I felt nautious and moody and it was only my 1st week and every symptom I read was coming true and my stomach was so bloated it felt hard! I think I may just get back on Depo!
For the first 2 months of using the Nuvaring I felt amazing. My skin cleared up, my hormones felt regulated, and it was so easy. I switched from the pill because it was so hard for me to take and would sometimes get nauseous. After the first 2 months on the Nuvaring I literally became a different person. I never wanted to go out, constantly tired and unmotivated, dizziness, irritable, CRAZY feelings of anxiety, insane nauseousness, occasional headache, shaky, and always hungry. I've had to leave class multiple times due to the symptoms (also have thrown up 3 times). I've been on it for almost 8 months now and decided to take it out to see what happened. I completely went back to my old self and felt amazing. Although it may be easy, if you experience the bad side effects it is AWFUL.
I am 16 and have been taking the pill up until I was 15, then I switched to the nuvaring. since then I gained about 20-35 pounds and I decided to then go off of it for 3 months and i lost about 18 pounds. I started taking it again when I became sexually active and since then I'm stuck at my current weight and even gained a pound. I'm moody- I'm depressed, easily irritated and anxious sometimes, I'm hungry often, and find it difficult to stop thinking about food and I don't want to workout and be active anymore. my breasts are a 34G, and it makes me cry every time my parents refuse to buy me a bra because it costs so much. I haven't gone swimming in over a year because I refuse to wear a swimsuit with how my body looks. I cry very easily on this medication, over the stupidest things.
I have been using Nuvaring for around 12 months now. I LOVE just how easy it makes life. It's so easy, doesn't “ fall out “ for me like some others say, sex drive is still there, Nil issues with cramps or pain. I do however think it Messes with your mental stability... and weight gain is huge! But I've always been overweight so maybe it's just me naturally... anyway I would recommend and will continue to use the product ????
URGENT!!! I decided to use nuva ring to calm down my PMS pains that lasted two weeks before my period. I have a very strong cycle with awful pains in my whole body and I had to do something about it. So I put this ring on the third day of my period as prescribes and for next three days I had terrible pains in my lower abdomen. Then in one week, I became super emotional and everything that would make me usually upset just drove me crazy!! I was irrational, cried and screamed and became very selfish and jealous!! Today, on day 11 I took out the ring because I broke up with my boyfriend for the stupidest reason ever (I was extremely rude to him but he understood that it was hormones because that really never happened before so we decided to keep some distance today till hormones are back to normal)! The symptoms included being very emotional at night, not being able to fall asleep until 3 am, having terrifying dreams, and then waking up in the morning asking yourself WTF happened last night!!! I will never use any form of contraception anymore, I would rather have pains than to lose everybody I love. Be careful with it!
I started using Nuvaring about 14 years ago and it has had many benefits such as excellent contraception, controlled periods and not having to remember daily meds. However, reduced libido which I blamed on busy life!! , And over the past year increased headaches and insomnia has made me rethink . I stopped using nuvuring 2 months ago and I'm a new person !!!! I have energy back not to mention my sex drive has dramatically improved . No headaches now and sleep improving. I should have stopped it years ago !!!! Sorry Nuvaring.... won't be going back in ??
Ive been using it for 2-3 weeks and have been having very mild period pain like feelings, had a little bit more spots than usual but nothing crazy, my body is still getting used to it, however it would be good if it could come in different sizes, im finding is trying to come out (but never has)
I've been on BC since I was 16 and am now 37. I've only had the last 8-9 years off hormonal BC doing fertility awareness method due to thyroid disease, and believe me, it's NOT better. Maybe worse. Let me explain. Having "normal" periods after having 2 children is a very humbling experience. Ok, after babies, it is expected. But one those initial hormones subsided and things went back to “normal”, it was absolute hell. The worst PMS. Cramping that was like contractions, heavy flows requiring me to stay home. Oh and did I mention the PMS? I want to kill everyone. Absolute rage and depression for up to 2 weeks before starting. I only have a 26 day cycle now, so I would literally be ovulating, on my period or PMSing the entire month. It is miserable. Let's talk about ovulating. I track and abstaining from sex during high fertility days using an iPhone app. It works well. But here's the “side effects" of that: I've never wanted sex more, and when you have two young kids, it's absolute torture. When I finally could have sex (and it was great!) then would start the “fear” for the next two weeks worrying that I would be pregnant. Then the PMS sets in and I act worse then I ever did
I have been on the Nuvaring for over a year now and it's been the best birth control for me. I had never heard about the Nuvaring until my doctor recommend it for me since I didn't like taking the pill. I have never had any problems out of the Nuvaring. It's never fell out, or caused pain in anyway for me or my fiancé. Sex has never been unpleasant or uncomfortable. Every birth control is different for everyone. All birth controls have side effects, you have to let it get into your system before you say it's the worst birth control. I highly recommend the Nuvaring if you are looking for a birth control.
So many bad reviews omg. I have been using the ring for over 5 years. I love it i atopped using it for a while then had my son 4 1/2 years ago. Soon as i had him i got back on the ring. Then stopped using it in May of 2016 ( so that we could have another baby) got pregnant in October2016, and back on nuvaring last month. Never had problems
first few months I loved it. More discharge than normal but it makes sense. Maybe 6 months in sex has become extremely unpleasant. I thought I had a yeast infection as things didn't feel right but everything came back negative but my pH was off. Then those symptoms turned UTI-ish and peeing burned and then it felt like my insides were burning. Now I've noticed it more during sex. I didn't notice any mood/weight issues. Hate the other options of taking a pill/IUD
I've been on nuvaring about 5 months and have gained 7 pounds mostly on my belly. The skin on my face looks dry and bumpy. The first couple days I put it in I'm throwing up. It burns my vagina sometimes. Sometimes I don't feel sex. I have fatigue, depression, insomnia, and headaches. I'm always hungry which is not like me at all. It did resolve my abnormal periods. But not worth it.
I started using nuvaring after the birth of my second child as I had problems with the pill prior. Within two weeks I noticed sharp tearing pains where it was located. Sex was extremely uncomfortable for both me ad the husband. Within a month and a half of using it I developed a severe yeast infection from it which required prescription medication to treat. After 3 months I went to the doctor to switch birth control and found out I was 4 weeks pregnant. I would not recommend this as a convenient or effective form of birth control.
It is great to not have to remember a pill, but the ring came out all the time! I would have to adjust it at least twice a day! It's very annoying and uncomfortable. I went to the doctor, and she said everything is fine, that just happens sometimes to people. Why do they make it ring shaped?! It makes no sense. That is not a shape that fits vaginas well.
I only had the Nuvaring in less than a week before I start having side effects (and removed it). appetite -SEVERE stomach pain lasted for like 4 days. - dizziness and nausea - shakes and chills -loss of appetite -Irregular vaginal bleeding So I took it out and probably will never use the Nuvaring again. It seemed like it could be effective and worth the money spent on it. But, those side effects I experienced was not worth it to me .
I've become a different person. They weren't even mood swings, just constant depression and anger over the month. I gave it a chance to see if it would settle, but when I spent a 5 day vacation (I canceled the actual trip) curled on the couch, almost in tears for no reason, I'd had enough. I removed the ring. I am normally an emotionally stable person. There was no stability in my thoughts this month, and I've probably hurt a few people with angry remarks. I've also had no desire to be touched, so it defeats the purpose of needing birth control. It was a terrible time, no matter how easy the method. I think I just felt a little joy creep in when pulling it out! Wow. The worst BC experience for me, and I bled for ten days at a time using an IUD 15 years ago. I'd prefer that. Fail. Sorry Nuvaring. :(
I used the Nuva ring for over a year. It was convienant to only have to remember it was there once a month. If I needed to skip a period, it was simple. Only side effects I had was vaginal discharge, that is normal. Wasn't a problem since there were no infections. My partner never knew I had it on. If placed correctly. Sex was enjoyable since maybe the Nuva ring rubs against your cervix (where most nerve endings are). I tried other methods so far this one was the right one for me.
Just don't. I was more unstable on this than I was when a lot was actually happening to me. Mood swings like you wouldn't Believe. For example my boy friend was tickling me, and I was laughing hysterically, and a couple seconds later I was crying hysterically, for no reason, I just broke down. My depression had serverly worsened and I was constantly in fear and on the verge of panic attacks. I lost who I was. My migraines came back, and my sleep had started to get effected right before I made the choice to take it out. This is not worth your time, it will most likely Cause you a lot of pain.
I had a horrible experience with this birth control. I bled every single day for over a month straight. It made me feel like I was in a haze and I was overly sensitive and emotional. Once I took it out and stopped it I felt immediately better and felt like myself again. I would not recommend this birth control to anyone.
within a week i developed acne, depression and a UTI
I started using Nuva Ring about a year and a half ago because the pill was making me nauseous. Starting out, things were great: super easy to use, no acne, no weight gain. About a year into using Nuva Ring I realized that it had slowly diminished my sex drive down to nothing and during sex I was unable to feel anything. It wasn't until a period week when I had it out for a period of time and had intercourse without having just taken it out (you can remove it for up to two hours), that I realized what was happening. I've also noticed in the past couple of months that I've been having terrible incontinence issues. I literally feel like I can't control my bladder. I think it's related because I would go through periods of time on the ring where I thought I had a UTI and I would take my ring out and be relieved of all of my symptoms. Yes, it's easy, but nothing good ever came easy. I do not recommend.
3 days into it I experienced a fog mentality, irritability, depression, bad dreams, nausea, and anxiety/panic attacks. Cried for no reason often. I decided it wasn't for me. Easy to use, just not for me.
I used the nuvaring for about a year and a half. The first few months it seemed too good to be true. The periods were so convenient, I only put on weight in all the right places, you can't feel it during sex, AND so easy to put in/take out. Truthfully, the only downfall seemed to be that I would forget to take it out after three weeks to get my period. All was fine and dandy with the nuvaring until I had read a random article about how some girl felt after she stopped taking her birth control. One thing she mentioned that her anxiety/depression has ceased. About the same time that I was on nuvaring I had developed crippling anxiety. After I sat an thought about it, I realized that I could pinpoint the very first feeling of anxiousness and panic attach to the same week that I had inserted the nuvaring. I took it out immediately and within weeks felt like a normal person; it was like finally coming up for fresh air after being trapped underwater unsure of how to make it out. Aside from the unbearable mental turmoil, the nuvaring was basically perfect.I myself was never an anxious person prior to my exposure to it and I now find that I have similar side effects with almost all birth c
My experience with my Nuva Ring changed my life. Within the first 24 hours of inserting it I started to vomit profusely . I was so scared that it was related and took it out and called my doctor who said it's impossible that there was any relation to the Nuva Ring, so I put it back in. I started getting acne, dizziness, mood swings, headaches, and a few other symptoms that I was told would go away. A few weeks later I started with these weird stare offs with nausea that totally immobilized me for a few minutes at a time ( which I later found out were called absent seizures.) They continually got more serious and more often. Finally, a month and a half later I had a grand mal seizure that hospitalized me for three days. The doctor told me that the he was sure all of this was caused by the method of contraceptive I recently tried and it would take a few months for the hormones to completely leave my body. 6 months later I still continue to suffer with headaches, foggy brain, feeling out of it, and extreme mood swings . As time goes on the symptoms become less, but thankfully I stopped when I did. The months of seizures and not being able to continue with normal life was not worth
I got on nuva ring when my boyfriend and I got serious. I've had a bad experience with the pill in the past so I wanted something new. The first month was amazing, I didn't have my period and I didn't experience any side effects. After that I experienced the most escruciating stomach pains of my life. I would be at work (as a cook) and shooting pains would come on randomly so badly that it would drop me to my knees and then it would be gone moments later. At first the episodes were far apart and I didn't associate it with my birth control. It gradually got worse and worse to the point where I was unable to enjoy sex because it would contribute to the pain. When I went to my gyno she told me it was a side effect that often would subside on it's own after 2-3 months. So I went ahead and tried to tough it out... It only got worse and worse. When I had finally had enough and took it out the pain entirely subsided within a week. I would never recomend this for anybody. Its uncomfortable, you can feel it during sex and in my case it caused excruciating pain. I got an implant a month later and I have no regrets.
I really wanted to love nuvaring. I lasted almost a year on it, which is impressive for me because I've tried many pills that I couldn't make it a week on. pros: ease of use/not having to remember a pill No periods and virtually no spotting with continuous use Lower hormone levels made it tolerable Cons: this made me gain like maybe 3 to 5 pounds centered around my middle and seem to make my boobs smaller and my butt smaller, after a few months I'm kind of a small person and I work Out , so small amount of weight and drove me nuts, Plus it was like making my body unfeminine looking I had pretty constant vaginal irritation so persistent but I didn't even notice it as much anymore until after I was off it for a couple weeks and realize how much better and normal everything felt I was getting headaches 10 to 15 Days a month that I just thought were stress or allergies, I realize the first few weeks after I stop the ring that I hadn't had one single headache nor allergy flayer I realize the first few weeks after I stop the ring that I hadn't had one single headache nor allergy/rhinitis flares after running. I generally felt sort of fatigue but at the same time had
I was on Nuvaring for 3 years after college, and for the first half of that time, I absolutely loved it. I experienced mild constipation during the first month, but my body adjusted nicely after that. I read another review on here that said the formula changed in late 2014, and early 2015 is when I started noticing intense mood changes, so much so that in 2016 I sought psychiatric help out of fear of my dark thoughts. Due to a career change and cross-country move in the summer of 2016, I had a gap in health insurance and haven't been on nuvaring since August (now October). Mood issues have completely disappeared!! However, I experienced swelling and bloating like I never have before, to the point where strangers were asking if I was pregnant (I've always been trim/athletic). Gained 20 lbs in 6 weeks, quite a lot of it being belly fat, even though I continued to eat a balanced diet and exercised regularly, just like I always have. For the first time in my life, I'm having problems with acne. If I had known about the side effect of going OFF the ring, I might have re-considered ever going on in the first place. Have a consult with my ob/gyn soon to discuss hormone balance and potenti
I started this birth control after having a baby, I felt super emotional and wrote it off that I was hormonal from having a child. After about two months on it and having irritation and still feeling emotional i stopped it. After a month or so off I decided to give it another try. It has been about 4 months and I have decided to stop it for good. I became so distraught and anxious these past months and each month it only became worse. This final month i was so depressed and having dark thoughts, I also would find myself fighting back tears throughout the day and not knowing why. I felt overwhelmingly sad and would become agitated at the drop of a dime. Finally after reading about others who shared this experience I decided maybe it is this ring making me lose my mind. I took it out early two days ago and am hoping after a week or so to feel more like myself.
I've tried everything but the IUD and have stuck with NuvaRing. I love it. I actually leave it in for the extra week and skip my period so I only have it 4 times a year vs every month. Pros: easy to use, no need to remember to take something daily, no invasive surgery, can remove for 2 hours safely for intercourse, periods once a quarter not a month, period went from heavy 5 days to heavy 2 days Cons: more discharge, yeast infections if used in conjunction with tampons (for me anyway), can be felt during intercourse and can hurt if partner is larger, must be diligent to reinsert within 2 hours, more emotional during PMS
Honestly, if you want to experience PAIN then this is right for you. Yeah it prevents pregnancy and what not but the amount of pain you experience in your uterus is totally not worth it! I am 20 years old and I've never experienced this amount/type of pain. Its extremely harsh and it feels like needles piercing through you! I gained 4 pounds the first week and I'm VEGAN! My breasts got bigger too and I'm not complaining but the pain just isn't for me. I also experienced very bad mood swings and that just isn't me.
This is the worst birth control ever. My doctor switched me to nuvaring because i was complaining about a low sex drive on the pill. So this ring, its great not having to remember to take anything daily. However, i would wake up at night and it would feel like it is falling out. I also started spotting brown discharge constantly. Very painful cramps 2 weeks into a new ring. The doctor said I could wear it for 4 weeks and change right into a new one but i get my period 2.5 weeks into a new ring. Its gross trying to dig it out on your period. I've been on the ring 8 months and was hoping my body would adjust but it never did.
This was the worst birth control I have ever been on... the first month was great, no problems, second month everything started to go down hill. Sex drive went completely away, I started to feel depressed. as it went on further, I would cry out of no where, I felt insane. not to mention it is awkward, and kinda hard inserting the ring. this is just my experience, but I wouldn't recommend the NR. I removed nuva ring after the 5th month. I now have IUD(mirena) and have no problems.
The Nuvaring caused me a lot of discomfort and vaginal irritation. Used it for 2.5 months and my husband asked me to remove it. Sex drive became non-existent and very painful. Mood swings were terrible.
I have been on the nuvaring for 8 years. I LOVED IT. As an active duty Marine I didn't have time to worry about taking a pill especially when my days drug out. I ended up having life altering negative side effects with the IUD, so my doc recommended this. I was probably the worst at following directions, I NEVER refrigerated it, I deployed and took a 8 month supply with me to the desert....it sat in a bag under my bed in 100+ degree weather in the summer and NEVER had an issue. PROS: Boobs grew about 1/2 a cup size which was nice because I am small chested. No mood swings. Clearer skin. Minimal Cramping. No headaches/migraines. No weight gain...nothing Cons: They changed their "formula" on them late 2014 without telling anyone. I got pregnant in January 2015 and miscarried in April 2015. I then went right back on the ring and got a brand new prescription and actually refrigerated it thinking that was the reason why it failed. Fast forward to Aug 2015 I got pregnant...AGAIN! This time we were able to successfully have my baby and I love my son to death, but my husband and I were not ready. I will NOT be going back on this again. I talked to a few of my friends who used it too
Was on the nuva ring for more than 5 years. Had frequent UTIs after sex and constant pH and discharge problems. I landed in the hospital last December with a massive blood clot which moved to my lungs and my heart. I almost died and while it's a rare case the more I talked to my doctors and listened to the actual nuvaring commercial I realized they are not hiding the fact that the risks are out there. I've been on blood thinners 6 months and an forced to switch to the Copper IUD as the only form of non hormonal birth control there is. All I can say is read up on hormones and understand what they can do to your body. It's scary to think of what they're capable of.
I wanted an easy birth control method. Definitely easy to use. Never fell out when it wasn't suppose to, and A LOT LESS acne. The CONS for me was gaining 50lbs, low libido, extra discharge (way extra), feeling like a huge balloon! I've been on it for about a year now and I'm stopping it today! I look like I'm 9 months pregnant no joke! It made my belly balloon out like I have beer gut and I don't drink beer. I feel like my whole body is swollen. The reason I've been on it so long was because I thought it was just me needing to work out more. NOPE! I've been killing myself and no change, still gaining about a pound a week! See ya Nuva Ring! ?
At first, I did the dumb thing and read all the horror stories of this birth control. For reference, I have endometriosis, my periods literally drained me, were dreadful and caused me to want to have all my reproductive organs taken out, before I even turned 25. My pms symptoms ranged from tender breasts, anger, uncontrollable emotions, fatigue and horrible bloat. My period would also be so heavy, I'd go through 36 tampons the first 4 days. First! My period would last 7 full days. From start to finish. I finally took the leap and got in nuva ring a month ago and I will NOT be looking back. Its an amazing product. Pro: no more acne, no sore breasts, little to no pms symptoms, lighter period, no cramps. Cons: spotted for a solid 15 days, after a 7 day period. That's 22 days of bleeding I wasn't prepared for. For someone suffering from endometriosis, this is an amazing experience. This, is how a period should be. Let your body tell you how it will work, not the reviews. I read too many reviews of dry vagina, low sex drive etc. None of that on this side. It may have been because my hormones were so off balance or that it does in fact effect everyone different but, I'm not going to
I've been using NuvaRing on and off for about 8 years, since I was 16. I noticed that I experienced more vaginal discharge than normal, but my doctor always assured me that that was totally normal. However most check ups resulted in them saying I had a mild yeast infection or mild bacterial vaginosis. Doctors claim that was totally unrelated from the NuvaRing. I recently stopped taking it for the last 3 months, and my vaginal pH returned to normal, no discomfort or strange scent. I refilled my prescription this week, and there you go! 4 days in and all of the old symptoms are back! Immediately removing this. Pros: easy to use Cons: very low sex-drive, negative vaginal side effects like discharge and unpleasant scent.
Pros: easy to use, less acne Cons: decreased libido, deleloped severe anxiety, gained 40 lbs, began to develop eczema on face
I absolutely love it. I'm 21 and have been on the ring for a little over a year. It's so much easier to remember than the pill and I haven't had a single side effect. Would recommend 10/10 times.
I have been on the nuvaring since 2011, I have had no problems being on this birth control! I did gain some weight on it, but that is to be expected. :) When I was on the pill, I would often forget to take it, and luckily I didn't get pregnant, but I went ahead and switched to nuvaring. I like how I can put it in, and leave it in for three weeks, and not worry about a thing! There are a few things I don't like about it, but that hasn't made me change birth control again. Side effects: Horrible nausea week that I take it out, boyfriend can feel it during intercourse, and horrible discharge. But pretty amazing, that i've been on this birth control for over 4 years, and haven't ended up pregnant! I will continue to use this, until I am ready to have a baby!
The NuvaRing was great. Really easy to use, never felt it. Partner rarely felt it. Vaginal discharge was a bit ridiculous. Gained body fat in lower abdominals and my breasts grew half a cup size (I'm small so it was really noticeable). Zero acne. Great mood. Lower sex drive. I got off it because it was causing a hormonal imbalace and caused me to gain about 2-3% body fat. I liked it a lot just wasn't right for my body.
I was on the pill for years and frequently forgot to take it so i switched to the patch and had a miscarraige while on the patch. Decided to try the Nuva Ring and I absolutely love it. I don't have to remember it everyday and I have no side effects that relate to it. My periods have went from 7 days to about 4 days and aren't nearly as heavy. The only problem I had with it was when i first started I had a few weeks of spotting here and there but my body got use to the change and I have had no problems since. I highly recommend the Nuva Ring.
I have never been so emotionally unstable in my life. No history or family history of depression or mental disorders, but my mood swings were all over the place. I had absolutely no libido. I suffered from migranes when I had never even had a dull headache before in my life. I had a period for three weeks after changing the ring the first time, my period ended for three days, and then my period started again. My acne actually got worse, and I was sick to my stomach during my month long period saga. I would rather be inconvenienced to take a pill at the same time everyday for the rest of my life instead of ever using that method of birth control again. I talked to my obgyn about my symptoms and she stated that I might have had an adverse reaction due to my reoccuring ovarian cysts. I wouldn't recommend this product to anyone, ever.
I have used this for about 6 months now. I have had no problems. It is easy to use and I never have to remember to take a pill. So far, this is helping to get rid of most of my night sweats and my headaches. It has also helped with my mood swings. I was on Yasmine for the last 6 years or so and that really helped with my PMDD, but some of those signs were coming back, so my Dr. switched me to Nuvaring to mix things up.
Like any contraception, weight gain is always an issue. Make sure when using this contraceptive, that you pay extra attention to your caloric intake. As for pregnancy prevention, I have been on this for two years now and have not gotten pregnant, but I also use two methods, birth control and condoms. My periods have gotten lighter going from 7 days down to 4-5. My period is much easier to track and it's almost like clockwork when I'm about to start my period. Easy to use, and you don't have to remember to take a pill everyday.
Weird Side effects that I cant pinpoint yet. Mood swings on the week not on the ring. Very easy to use, dont have to remember to take a pill. Very costly due to no generic yet.
Due to the nuva ring I suffered a pulmonary embolism (blood clot in the lungs) I have one in each lung. I almost died. I have also heard of many others having the same thing happen to them, I was hospitalized for 5 days and am currently on blood thinners (that I might be on for the rest of my life) I am only 22 years old this shouldnt be happening. I would not recommend this to anyone!
I have not taken birth control for years. Within 4-5 days of taking this birth control, I was experiencing mood swings that were severe. They consisted of mainly agitation and anger. I do not feel this is my normal state of being. I would not recommend this pill for this reason. I am going to go off of this medication.
I actually took this drug for almost two years! At first it gave me severe depression that almost made me kill me- it was crazy! That only lasted four months though. It does help with acne except it all comes flooding back during the placebo week. It gave me horrible "period" cramps that were actually just hormone withdrawal cramps. The cramps had me lying on the floor when I had never experienced cramps before this. It's not really possible to skip periods using this because of the weekly changing dosages. I'm switching because I want to skip all of my periods. I hope the life-threatening hormonal depression doesn't return. Wish me luck!
I was super excited to get on this pill because I was suffering from the worst acne I have ever had in my life and also needed a contraceptive. The first week my skin got worse, then it got a lot better. I only lasted three weeks on this pill though because I was constantly dizzy and throwing up every single day. I did not realize what was causing it because I never thought a birth control could give such horrible side effects. I did not put it together until I looked up the side effects and saw that other people were having the same issue. It was the worst nausea I have ever experienced in my whole life and I needed up in the ER getting fluids from it. I was warned of spotting, breast tenderness etc. but had no idea about the EXTREME nausea. Although it helped clear my skin, it was not worth the risk.
At first i was okay. My skin has been cleared a tiny bit. But i find myself often depressed. It comes and goes in waves, I've never been a depressed person until after I start the pill. I don't have any physical side effects. But the depression has gotten bad.
I have never hated my life so much, I am not normally a person who gets angry. For real I am angry 24/7, like everything my husband does makes me want to break shit. I'd rather pull and pray FTS!
Pill is fine, the dispenser was redesigned this year and is awful- whoever designed it either never had a period or always starts theirs on Sunday, the classic circular design used to allow to turn the data of the week to keep up with your pull. However new design does not allow for any movement, dial staffs on Sunday and a notch at the top prevents it from turning. I messed up 4 times this month , started my period too early and had more cramps and more nuisance because of this than this product or my daily routine deserves. My acne cleared and periods got lighter so I wish they would go back to old design and all would be right in the world again.
DO NOT TAKE THIS PILL!!! I was switched to it a year a half ago. After a month of being on this pill I started to experience depression that continued for months until I almost checked myself into a psych ward. I went through months of counseling and medication to overcome this, and stayed on this birth control. I was still on it until two weeks ago, when I visited the gynecologist because I was concerned as to why I had gotten three yeast infections in the past month. My gyno told me it was because of this pill, and I also had a bad case of bacterial vaginosis. I have been off of it for 2 weeks now and I have not felt this level headed and in control of my mood in a very, VERY long time. After experiencing this, I am pretty positive my entire experience with depression was due to my switch to this pill- something I had never considered. It might work for you but it truly ruined a year of my life with depression, anxiety, multiple infections, etc. the only positive is it kept my acne free and I did not experience any breakthrough bleeding.
I have been on this birth control for about a month and a half now. When I started taking it, I literally thought I was pregnant due to the massive amount of side effects I experienced. In the first two weeks of taking it, I had dizzy spells, bouts of terrible nausea, and felt overheated all of the time. Now, a month and a half in, I am currently experiencing worsening acne, random moments of nausea, and worst of all-- terrible nipple pain. If someone even hugs me too tightly I cringe from the pain I feel in my breasts and nipples. I am only continuing to take this birth control because I am only and month and a half in and I am hoping most of the symptoms subside soon.
I used to take this birth control in highschool & as an adult I started taking it again. My first month I had bad cramps but now I'm onto my second month & the cramping has stopped. However, I've always had clear skin & since taking Tri cyclen, my face has had many break outs. When your body gets used to the hormones, does the acne stop?
I have been on Ortho- Tri- Cyclen for 3 weeks now. The only side effects I have had are cramps during the first week and I have been getting tolerable acne.
I was prescribed Ortho Tri-Cyclen for 10 years. I never had any side effects. It kept me pregnancy free through out my teens and early 20's. After stopping use I was able to get pregnant within a year.
Ive been on ortho for 4 days, i am no longer going to be using it as i seem to be waking up every hour of the night just to throw up. Ive also been experiencing horrible headaches and cant bare to take more than two bites of my food. my face has become pale and i have bags under my eyes.
I have only took this for 7 days but I cannot get passed this nausea. I am going to stop taking it because it is extremely bad where I can't eat, sleep or move without feeling like I'm going to vomit. It could have something to do with the fact that I haven't been on any hormonal birth control in like 8 years and I'm not used to the fluctuation in hormones. But other than the nausea I haven't noticed any other bad symptoms, so it might work okay for other women.
Ive been on ortho for 3 years. As long as i take it at the same time and im consistent it works very well. I very much however dislike the new packaging, if you dont know what your doing you can totally mix your days up.
Ortho tri cyclen was the third birth control I went on. I tried the depo shot which was terrible and then I tried aubra which is the lowest dose pill. Aubra broke me out super bad so I switched to this. Let me tell you, it takes guts to get past the side effects but once you do you it's like you forget you're even taking it. Unlike the depo shot I'm not Uncontrolably crying. It did however cause pretty bad nausea for the first week I took it and then the first week of the next few packs. It gave me weird stomach cramps almost like the cramps when you have diarrhea but I obviously didn't have diarrhea. This pill still makes me a little b*tchy here and there but once I got over the side effects it's so worth it. Ny periods before birth control were long and so heavy I developed anemia and so now my periods are way lighter shorter and less cramping. It does take a little time to get there but it's so worth it. I tried quitting to see if I still needed it for the bleeding and cramping and yes I completely do. Without it I'm almost puking from how bad my cramps are.
Tri- Cyclen is amazing ! I've been on this for 3+ years now , it keeps my skin completely clear and my period comes like clock work, it's much shorter than it was before I starting taking this . It's been an effective form of birth control for me , i went up a cup size or two but didn't experience weight gain anywhere else. Would highly recommend this!
I've been taking it for 2 months and it cleared my skin up some but Im literally always hungry. I've gain almost 10 pounds. I'm really not happy with that.
I only took this pill for one week, had extreme stomach upset all day long. Come mid week I became extremely depressed, I cried for hours for no reason and began having suicidal thoughts. The only time I felt normal was 1 hour before taking the pill. I also felt unmotivated, lost my appetite and began losing weight. I'm extremely active I workout/ powerlifting 5x a week but one week on this pill I had no energy to do anything! I also began having anxiety attacks so had that my body would literally shake.
It's so shocking for me to see so many women have bad experiences with Ortho Tricyclen. I've been using this for 5 cycles now, although not quite half a year, I am so happy my Gyno helped me make this choice. I've experienced the usual breast tenderness and growth, mild cramping, and nothing crazy or not normal. Thankfully, I've experienced less overall irritation, level moods, regular bleeding cycles, my acne has cleared significantly, I have experienced no clotting, and I'm able to participate in CrossFit with no fear regarding the effect on my performance. I find it easy to take the pill regularly in my morning routine so that I have the best chance at preventing pregnancy as well. I hope sharing my experience with Ortho Tricyclen helps!
Started taking this as my birth control about 2 months ago and my body has gone through way to many changes. I am constantly nauseous, stomach cramping so bad to the point i cant eat and have no appetite. Threw up several times a day on the pill so i decided to stop. So far i still am nausous in the morning and have stomach trouble throught the day. Can't wait for it to get out of my system. Do NOT recommend.
I immediately had problems with severe hormone changes, and even had symptoms of a possible blood clot. Later to discover that I had gotten pregnant while on this form of contraception. Worst birth control pill experience ever.
I have been on Ortho Tri-Cylen for about 13 days now. I was on LoLo which had a very small amount of hormone's because I would get super depressed and moody on any other type of birth control. My acne has gotten really bad lately so I switched to this one. I know everyone has different side effects but these side effects have been so untolerable and uncomfortable for me. I have had horrible breast tenderness to the point where I cry, extremely moody and very angry. I've also noticed I barely have any motivation and HORRIBLE cramping about 1-2 hours after I take it. ( i never even get cramps during my period). I plan to go off this pill as soon as possible.
This medicine gave me blood clots in my leg that eventually traveled to my lung and nearly killed me. I'm 22, active, healthy and don't smoke. Now I can never use hormonal birth control again. BE CAREFUL.
i started using Ortho Tri-Cyclen as my first form of birth control and it was good with preventing pregnancy but the first month it made my hormones crazy and i was having extremely bad cramps like right when i took the first pill which made me paranoid the whole month that i could be pregnant because i didn't see anyone with cramps as symptoms. i also had some spotting which didn't help with me being paranoid. but other than that it wasn't that bad. i'm still on it and my period cramps aren't nearly as bad and i don't bleed as much either.
I've been taking this for two years now. i've decided to completely stop taking it. it did keep my skin clear. it made me thicker in my thighs, butt, arms and slightly my stomach. IT DID make me have reoccurring yeast infections. my doctors couldn't figure out what was wrong for months. i tried everything. home remedies and OTC. i finally did some research to find out birth control hormones feed yeast growth in your body. it makes sense now why nothing worked to clear them. other than that my severe cramps did go away.
The first two months using Ortho Tri-Cyclen were tough. I had horrible mood swings, I was super hungry, and I had a lot of acne. If you can make it through the first few months, it is wonderful. Now I have no side effects at all, other than the occasional zit during my period.
This birth control helps very well with acne, and prevents pregnancy. My acne isn't completely clear but it is so so much better. It made my hair grow really fast, but also made the peach fuzz on my face grow thicker so I had to start shaving it. I haven't really noticed my breasts getting bigger or weight gain. One thing I have noticed is that after taking it for 3 months I start feeling very unmotivated, have trouble sleeping, and when I stand up I get very dizzy. It helps so well with acne but it makes me feel very lethargic and unfocused.
This pill has been awesome for me. I used to have very long and irregular periods. I wouldnt recommend skipping periods with this since I tried to for two years but I just kept spotting between cycles and it wouldnt stop so I just decided to take it normally. The only side effect I experience is headaches sometimes but after I sleep, they resolve. This pill solved my period problems, my acne, and helped me gain a little weight in a good way since I was so scrawny.
started taking this pill for my acne three months ago and it barely did anything to improve that but it did make me gain 15 pounds. if anyone is an athlete DO NOT take this. my doctor assured me it would not affect my running or weight and it significantly harmed both. as a very active person it was shocking to gain so much weight in a month with barely any change to my diet. my times have gotten worse and worse and I now feel incredibly weak and like I can barely run at all. My joints and muscles ache and the only thing that has changed is this stupid pill. Absolutely would not recommend to any athlete as it has destroyed my entire season.
I've been taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen for about 10 days now and I've been taking the pill every day at the same time since i started. I've been experiencing mood swings, i would get annoyed very easily, very angry, and that's not me. I've also had a headache every day since I've taken this pill. Felt very fatigue, had no motivation to do anything and feels like my depression is coming back. I'm definitely thinking about switching to a different brand not sure which one to take tho.
Been taking this for almost a year and a half. Haven't gotten pregnant, but had horrible mood swings and could cry over nothing, especially in the beginning months. Cleared up my acne almost completely. Feel like I'm empty though and don't have a zest for life like I used to before taking the pill. Feeling slightly depressed and unmotivated.
I took this for 6 months and discontinued. I was nauseated the whole time on this pill. Also I always had a constant yeast infection/ bacterial infection. Also I gained 40 pounds off the birth control. I don't think I could tolerate all the hormones. I would not refer to anyone to try this one.
I've been on this pill for 2+ years , I switched to marvelon for one month and decided to come back on this . Ortho tri cycles allows me to have my usual high sex drive , where as marvelon made me basically a non sexual being . I believe this is due to orrho tri cyclen being “ triphasic “ which mimics natural hormone fluctuations rather than other pills like marvelon that give you one dose the whole way through . Ortho tri cyxlsn May actually have increased my sex drive but I'm not complaining . This cleared up my skin for a long time but I now get breakouts once in a while .. my periods are normal and last about 5 days . No mood swings on this , but marvelon gave me bad anxiety and mood swings . Sticking to this pill .
I've been taking this for a while year now, mainly like everyone because of acne. I never really wanted to take a contraceptive pill because I always would say that I'm damaging my body and whatnot but honestly I was so tired of buying acne products and not saying any differnce what so ever, or seeing a difference for just a while months and then I would relapse really bad. I decided to go to the doctors and ask for something to help with acne and they recommended me this, I went because my acne started to spread on to my neck and it has never done that in my life so I needed to make a big step ahead. Also do note that I had forgot to take my pill for a whole week when I was supposed to after taking the inactive pills, since I had two jobs I had no time or when I did I was sleeping but I started to break out immediately, I was so scared honestly. And my acne is coming back slowly but also leaving slowly. So make sure never to forgot to take it or you'll start getting few pimple here and there.
I think that this is a great choice for those who suffer from acne but also want the plus of a birth control. I struggled with acne on my back and chest, and finally my doctor recommended this drug. I had tried other BC for acne, but it did not work. I have been on Ortho Tri-Cyclen for 2+ years and have really seen a difference in my acne. I also noticed that my mensral cramps are almost completely gone, and my period only lasts about 4 days. The heaviness of my period is somewhat lighter, but can sometimes be very heavy. I never correlated my moodiness with this pill, but after reading reviews I am starting to think maybe that is the cause! I understand that every body is different, but I would encourage those who are looking for a an acne treatment: BC to give this a try BUT make sure not to expect results right away. I didn't see results for a few months, but the wait was ABSOLUTELY worth it!
I started taking the pill to help with my acne. It has helped a lot but I'm still experiencing breakouts. Before getting on the pill I was 108 pounds and after a few months of being on it I weigh 120. I haven't changed my lifestyle at all. The pill does make me extremely moody.
I have only been on it for about 3 weeks and It has given me the worst mood swings ever. My husband can even tell a difference in my mood. I am a very emotional person in general and so to see so much of a drastic change in my mood was horrifying to me because I can barely live with myself. I would not recommend if you are likely to have mood swings.
First off.... PLEASE REMEMBER EVERYONES EXPERIENCE IS GOING TO BE DIFFERENT. I've been on for 4 months now: broke out a little in he beginning but not anymore. It made my boobs bigger and a tad sore occasionally- but nothing major. No weight gain, no cramps, no moodiness, NO PREGNANCY (even though I'm not the safest when it comes to condoms and such). Honestly no major complaints on my end, definitely recommend.
I have been on this specific pill for over 3 years now & I really haven't had a problem with it. (As opposed to Yasmin which made my hair fall out) I have a family history of endometriosis (my mother also developed ovarian cancer) So I do struggle with endo issues. But this pill has made my periods less heavy & absolutely less painful! (Also only lasting about 3 days as compared to around 9 while I was not on any birth control) I weigh somewhere between 107-109 on a regular basis & have never experienced any weight gain (I wish!) I have experienced mild acne & mood swings though, so I'll occasionally cry about nothing.. My husband & I use condoms as backup, but sometimes we go without & I've been just fine. I know everybody is different, but I am definitely one to recommend this pill!
I'm on the generic form Tri-Sprintec. Ive been on it for a little over a year now. My doctor put me on it to help prevent pregnancy along with acne. Let me tell you, the first 6 months I was on it, my face broke out worse than if has ever broken out, but my periods did get much lighter and less painful, which was great. I ended up having to be put on an antibiotic for an infection around 8 months of use. Ever since then, my periods have been out of whack. its like they cant seem to get into rhythm now and its been 4 months since I took the antibiotic.
I had a terrible experience with this and other brands of birth control. I was taking it for endometriosis, and while it did help with pain, the side effects were not worth it at all. I had horrible mood swings, crying for no reason, depression, excessive weight gain, irritability, etc. My husband says I am like a completely different person on it as opposed to off. We found more natural ways, I take vitex vitamins and they are absolutely wonderful, does the job with no side effects. If any of you are experiencing issues like endometriosis or similar issues they are definitely worth a shot!
GAVE ME A BLOOD CLOT.
After seeing my dermatologist at Skin Solutions Dermatology in Nashville, she continuously recommended Ortho-Tricyclen over other options because it's really the most low-risk option when it comes to acne and other side effects. It takes time though! Be patient and eventually you will see the results you want.
Overall my experience with this pill was good. The only lasting side effect was super moodiness, as in I was very irritable and could easily cry for any reason ( not normal for me.) While I did end up switching to a lower dosage birth control because of that side effect, the pill was great at preventing pregnancy and never had any other problems with it.


I have been on Tri Cyclen Lo for 6 years and have had a pretty positive experience with it. My periods are always on time though they have not really decreased in length of time (probably last around 5 days). My boobs grew 2 cup sizes, I was probably a 32C before I started and am now a 34DD at 23 years old.
I've been on ortho tri cyclen off and on for 8 years. (Would sometimes go on regular ortho cyclen when I was broke since it cost less.) I originally started taking it for horrific cystic acne and my face cleared up completely within 2 months. I've never had cystic acne since. I continue to take it because it's the only BC pill that doesn't give me crazy mood swings or cause depression. I am 33 and the pill does make it hard to lose weight...I can't seem to lose the last 5-10 lbs no matter what I do. But I don't get cramps anymore and my periods are generally light. So there are way more pros than cons. Also, sex drive was not decreased at all!
When first starting I broke out everywhere, jawline and cheeks.. A bunch of white heads and cysts. Second month was same as first, third month it's improving a lot but still not totally clear. I'll wait one more month.
Was on this pill for two years, recently got off to let my body take a break from it. I do plan on going back on it again once I get my next natural period. This pill gave me absolutely no side effects, although I am unsure of whether or not it contributed to a rise in my blood pressure readings since I never took my BP before getting on this pill. In these two years, I have almost never missed a pill (missed the pill by a few hours about 3 times in 2 years). I've used no other protection method other than this pill during the time I was taking it. I also had moderate acne issues (cystic) prior to starting this regimen. My nurse practitioner had informed me that it will take care of the acne, and lo and behold, it did. My acne cleared up in less than 2 weeks. I had literally no acne for two years minus a break out or two a week before my period (but non-cystic). So this pill took care of my hormonal imbalance for sure. I love this pill; just make sure you are responsible for taking the pill at the exact time every day. It's effective.
The bc would make me throw up few times a day... Had the worst mood swings would start crying uncontrollably and my heart rate would randomly go up.. Breasts were tender too... Just a big nightmare over all had to switch over to something else and to top it all off this medicine made me get horrible acne
Did not need by breasts to grow in size, but with the pill, I've gone up a full cup size. I'm sure that'd be a perk for some people! I've been on this drug for three years and have previously tried several other brands for birth control. On all others, I experienced weight gain, bloating, irritability and water retention. I've seen none of the above with ortho tri cyclen lo.
I used Ortho-Tri-Cyclen because I was having bad menstrual cramps. So my doctor put me on this, I started to work and took the pain away but the pain went somewhere else. It went to both my thighs and I went to the emergency room 3 times. The ER didn't do much but give me a shot and it put me to sleep.
Took it for five months as birth control & to help w acne as my former birth control made my face go haywire! Thought it was helping w acne at first did make it less but still gave me a noticeable, good amount of acne which was really annoying as they were painful bumps. Not pregnant though but definitely going to switch! Also gave me bigger boobs too but don't care about that just want one that doesn't give me annoying side effects.
I have been taking this for about a year now. My acne has cleared up, my periods have been shortened, and I haven't gotten pregnant. I never miss a pill and usually pair this with condoms, but on occasion my partner and I do not use a condom and we have been fine so far. I did gain about 5 pounds, but I am willing to live with that for all of the benefits that this give me.
No two bodies are the same, but I didn't have a bad experience with this birth control. I never had severe acne problems but the acne I did get from time to was none to very minimal. My periods were light and shortened to about 2-3 days. I did however gain about 30 pounds over while taking this pill. Most birth controls tend to make people gain weight (I haven't found one that isn't that side effect for people). Overall, I'd say it gets the job done if you're consistent with taking the pill (I put an alarm on my phone everyday as a reminder to take it).
This is not great for preventing pregnancy I still got pregnant. It made me bleed a lot and cause cause about 10-15 pound weight. I was always average between 147-157 at max but I feel like I could have been smaller if I had not took this. It caused me to have a lot of depression and anxiety too!! I would not recommend but we are all different. My doctor switched me to Yasmin. I'll let you know thanks
I started taking Ortho when I was 14 due to severe endometriosis. It helped a lot at first with the pains and heavy bleeding. Once I turned 20, everything went downhill. I started having the worlds worst period pains, all the way down my thighs, and I would get extremely nauseous from the pain. I also got super agitated. I cut myself off of it which is horrible in itself. I'm not sure if my body built a tolerance but I rather deal with the pain from my endometriosis.
It helped a lot! Honestly, it was amazing!
Honestly, the only problem I've ever found, was the fact that I take the pill when I wake up in the morning, and trying to remember what day it is... Also it did a wonderful job of helping to clear up my acne! I've used it for just over a year now, and I honestly wouldn't change.
LOVE this stuff. I've been taking it for 7 years now, my periods were shortened from 6-7 days a month to 2-3. I went from having severe PMS, cramps and bloating to mild symptoms that don't last as long. You do have to remember to take it, but I have a reminder on my cell phone set to go off at the same time everyday, and its not a problem. I've been sexually active almost the whole time I've been taking this pill, and no babies yet! I know every person is different and reacts differently to different pills, but I love the way I feel on this pill and would definitely reccommend that anyone try it.
WHERE TO START? This pill did more harm for me than good! In a matter of months, my clear skin started break out!! I had acne on my back, which I have never had. I went from a slim, petite girl to gaining weight right and left. I ate the same things and excercised and still gained 30 pounds over the period of a year! Not to mentoin mood swings! My man didnt know what in the world was wrong with me! I Have been off of it for six months and still dont think my body has recovered.
WHERE TO START? This pill did more harm for me than good! In a matter of months, my clear skin started break out!! I had acne on my back, which I have never had. I went from a slim, petite girl to gaining weight right and left. I ate the same things and excercised and still gained 30 pounds over the period of a year! Not to mentoin mood swings! My man didnt know what in the world was wrong with me! I Have been off of it for six months and still dont think my body has recovered.
Ortho Cyclen SUCKS!! I have been taking it for birth control for about 2 weeks and am going off of it tomorrow. It just better not take too long to get out of my system. I think it should be banned and I cannot believe with all of the potential side effects listed in the little pamphlet you get with it, all the drug companies can say is, "Oh it will clear up your skin???" Bull sh**t. Ive had problems with acne for years and my skin was just starting to look the clearest its ever been with my (diet, exercise, homemade organic skincare products). I start taking this pill and I broke out ALL over my chest, shoulders, and of course my face. I got zits where I never got zits before. Bottom line I do NOT believe in taking pills that mess up your natural body rhythm and cause everything to go wrong with you so the drug companies can bank on your problems even further and this pill proved my point loud and clear.
ok heres my story. I used this for 3 months for birth control. It was fine. I stayed my regular period. (Which I love, I dont like not having a period. Your supposed to naturally. And this is my way to know if I'm preggo.) I didn't miss 1 pill, EVER! And I missed my period and took a pregnancy test and I was pregnant. So I got pregnant with perfect use. So I happened to be the less than 1% of women who get pregnant. But I don't regret it because now I have my beautiful son. But I would never use this ever again and I would most definatly nor reccomend it to any woman. I would reccomend Paragard. Its hormone free so you period stays normal, no weight gain, or mood swings. nothing. and it can last up to 10 years. you can get it taken out at anytime you wish. its wonderful.
Missed one pill and got pregnant After using Ortho Tri-Cyclen for a few years, my doctor switched me to Ortho Tri-Cyclen Lo to help with my acne. I never had any side effects on either of the pills but I'm not great about taking them at the same time every day, and I missed one pill about a month ago and now I'm pregnant. I thought the pill was a little more reliable than that. Just be aware that it's not.
I hate estrogen I really hated being on an estrogen-containing birth control pill. The idea was to reduce my menstrual flow and clear up my acne. Hah. Neither happened. Not only that, but even though I took the tablet at night, I would be SO nauseated by morning that I wanted to vomit until almost noon every day. Did I mention how much I hate estrogen? When I finally was put on a progestin-only medication, all of the bad symptoms that came with the pill or because of my own estrogen went away. Go figure. I hate estrogen.
Better at the Beggining... This pill brand worked very well for me however after a few years I noticed some side effects. It caused depression, mood swings, insecurities, and a lot of frustration. It also increased my appetite which caused some weight gain. I plan on starting a new pill, alesse, in a few days.
Effective and fairly easy to use I've been using Nordette 28 or generic versions for nearly 10 years, but my dermatologist recently requested that I switch to Ortho Tricyclen Lo to see if that would help with my acne. I made the switch, and it seems to be working. However, I'm also using other acne treatments, such as Tretinoin, tetracycline, and Stridex Power Pads (benzoyl peroxide 2.5%), so I'm not sure if the contraceptive switch has anything to do with it. It's not causing any problems anyway. I'm not experiencing any breakthrough bleeding. My only complaint is that it's hard to push those pills out of the dispenser. I know I'm going to drop a pill one day in a dirty bathroom r down the drain of my sink.
Effective and fairly easy to use I've been using Nordette 28 or generic versions for nearly 10 years, but my dermatologist recently requested that I switch to Ortho Tricyclen Lo to see if that would help with my acne. I made the switch, and it seems to be working. However, I'm also using other acne treatments, such as Tretinoin, tetracycline, and Stridex Power Pads (benzoyl peroxide 2.5%), so I'm not sure if the contraceptive switch has anything to do with it. It's not causing any problems anyway. I'm not experiencing any breakthrough bleeding. My only complaint is that it's hard to push those pills out of the dispenser. I know I'm going to drop a pill one day in a dirty bathroom r down the drain of my sink.
BCP for cysts, heavy bleeding, etc This didn't work for me at all. I was nauseated all the time, and just felt awful!
Clearer Skin Like many teens, I have had mild acne since puberty. Well, I started taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen to regulate my hormones as a treatment for my interstital cystitis, and I am glad to say that it improved my skin, in addition to being very helpful for my interstitial cystitis and dysmenorrhea. EDIT: Note that I am taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen continously, without the "week off". EDIT #2: I have had to go off of Ortho Tri-Cyclen for insurance reasons. As soon as I get my insurance back, though, I would like to start taking it again right away.
Clearer Skin Like many teens, I have had mild acne since puberty. Well, I started taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen to regulate my hormones as a treatment for my interstital cystitis, and I am glad to say that it improved my skin, in addition to being very helpful for my interstitial cystitis and dysmenorrhea. EDIT: Note that I am taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen continously, without the "week off". EDIT #2: I have had to go off of Ortho Tri-Cyclen for insurance reasons. As soon as I get my insurance back, though, I would like to start taking it again right away.
I have no problems with this medication I switched to Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 after I began spotting on Triphasil. I actually lost a small amount of weight after the switch. I concurrently take medications for Bipolar disorder, so I feel that the strength of the pills is a good thing because some meds I've tried for my Bipolar can affect birth control. I've never had a monophasic pill, but have no problems with the triphasic regimen.
Meh I was first prescribed Ortho Tri-Cyclen when I was 16 for ovarian cysts. It did a pretty good job of keeping the cysts at bay, although they still popped up every once in awhile. I can't comment on its efficacy at preventing pregnancy, as I was not sexually active when I was using it. The side effects I had with it were low-grade depression, especially around my period, and what my neurologist called "Migraine syndrome," which included the dizziness, aura, tinnitus, light sensitivity, nausea and vomiting associated with migraine headache, without the actual headache.
Meh I was first prescribed Ortho Tri-Cyclen when I was 16 for ovarian cysts. It did a pretty good job of keeping the cysts at bay, although they still popped up every once in awhile. I can't comment on its efficacy at preventing pregnancy, as I was not sexually active when I was using it. The side effects I had with it were low-grade depression, especially around my period, and what my neurologist called "Migraine syndrome," which included the dizziness, aura, tinnitus, light sensitivity, nausea and vomiting associated with migraine headache, without the actual headache.
I loved it This was my birth control for many years, I never had any problems with it at all. The only reason I stopped taking it was because my doctor wanted to see if it would help lower my blood pressure. I encourage people to try it.
Works great, despite depression I was worried about weight gain initially as I work hard to maintain my fitness level and I have another concern in that I suffer from SEVERE rapid cycling (w/in minutes) bi-polar disorder. To my pleasant surprse I have had no ill side effects except for some nausea for the first week. Despite all of the horror stories about the pill in general - in ten years I have had no problems and it has obviously been effective!
Hated it! I gained weight and lost my sex drive! Screwed my periods and I spotted on this. Needless to say, this was NOT for me!
worked perfectly, rarely caused nausea It worked perfectly, though it did rarely cause nausea. Pills are reasonable if you're the sort of person who can remember to take a pill every day without fail at exactly the same time (which I was and is probably why it worked perfectly). It was a pain to deal with when travelling and when changing time zones - you have to remember to pack enough pills. Also, on rare occasions when I was nauseous for unrelated reasons, I had to skip a pill, and that was pretty inconvenient.
it worked but... who wants to take a birth control pill everyday for the rest of thier life? I was only getting the relief from the mid-month bleeding and cramping. While I liked the double action of the pill protecting against pregnancy and helping out with the PCOD, it just didnt take care of it for me.
Tri Cyclen 21 pack I've been on tri-cyclen for a couple years...no side effects, only downside is that I can't skip a period if i wanted to. I wouldn't feel comfortable on any other pill!
Best Method for Me Worked perfectly for fifteen years. Had the added benefit of making my menstrual cramps less painful.
Works fine... ...if you can remember to take it. My skin cleared up nicely on this medication, and my periods became next to null. Only bloody discharge for a day each month. I would have continued taking it if my insurance hadn't instituted a 'only five prescriptions' rule, and instead had an IUD put in.
Birth control pills to the rescue for moods Birth control pills, higher dosage such as Ortho Tri-Cyclen 28 to offset topamax side effects on oral contraceptives, has been a life saver. Decreased the mood swings and SEVERE PMS to non-issue. Went from severly aggitated to more calm through out the month with less cycling as a rapid-cycler. Has been more effective now with the use of Cytomel (thyroid hormone treatment) for the moods.
Be careful Although I'd successfully used Tri-Cyclen for years. I encountered a huge problem with it when I went back on it after being off for a year. I was immediately thrown into a serious depression. Warning: if diagnosed with bipolar, do NOT take this drug without a doctor's close supervision.
Good Worked with a few side effects. Pain to remember to take every day though.
OCPs (continuous and otherwise) I've been through so many brands of OCP's, I'm not sure I can remember them all. Ortho Cyclen, LoEstrin Fe, Alesse, and some others I can't recall. I've tried them cyclically (3 weeks on, one week off), continuously (no placebo/inert pills at all), and in 3 month cycles (12 weeks on, one week off). Taken cyclically, I had no relief at all. Taken continuously, I had some improvement. Taken in three month cycles, I had some improvement until the week off came, then I would have the period from hell. Side effects were pretty much the same in all the brands I tried. Moderate depression (not enough to incapacitate me, but definitely decreased my quality of life), breakthrough bleeding, and greatly decreased sex drive were the main issues. Overall, I found that OCPs were simply not effective enough to make up for the side effects they caused. I do seem to be rather sensitive to the progestin component (based on my experience with straight progestins such as Depo-Provera, as well as high levels of natural progesterone during pregnancy), so I doubt most people would have side effects as unpleasant as I did.
BCP Experience I have been on some form of BCP since I was 14 and at first it did help to ease the pain, but now, because of the severity of my endo it does not help me at all. Even with my other treatments I have been on constant BCP for several years. It has not been successful for me and about every 3-4 months I will have a period regardless. I usually have to go to bed for 4 or 5 days because of the pain. I haven't had a lot of side effects with them though. This is not a bad treatment to try if you suspect you may have endo.
Works for me The pill is what brought my pain under control. Because of breakthrough bleeding, my doctor has me on the pill continuously to stop my periods. This has been wonderful. Because I'm 37 I also take a baby aspirin every day.
CBCPS Blow I've tried so many that to name them all would be to hard. I found that I am allergic to most and others flat out just don't work for me.
continuous birth control I have been on 4 different pills but have not found one that works more than 3 months. I seem to always get my period and sometimes it can last months. But when it works a little while, it is wonderful. My endo symptoms go away about 90%. I still have bloating, and fatique though. I am still working to find a pill that will work 24/7. It can be a long process but it is worth it.
BCP.review My use of birthcontrol pills only made my period constant, and still heavy and painful. I know many women do get relief from BCPs, however for some women it can be a long road of trial and error to find the right pill for you. I opted not to go to the end of that road.
Okay, so I usually don't give reviews on stuff like this but I felt it was necessary because of so many bad reviews on here for this drug. Before I started taking it I got really scared after reading these reviews but decided to start it anyway because I have tried so many other things with terrible side effects. Of course, this BC is not for everyone but for me it has been amazing! I have had NO issues with it besides my breasts are a little more tender than normal about a week before my period. I have really struggled with BC and this is the first one I can take without feeling terrible. My advice if you're considering taking this... try it. It may not work for you and that's ok but if you've tired so many other things like I had then this one may be your ticket. I felt like I had seriously tried everything else. After 15 years with struggling with birth control this one is finally my answer.
When I was in my early 20s, I had taken an estrogen pill for contraception and was sick for the first 3 months while on it. It was as if I was pregnant. I had nausea and was vomiting, but I stuck it out for a few months before switching to a different kind which ended up making me feel even worse so I stopped all together. Now that my husband and I don't plan on having anymore kids, I wanted to try a different type of pill...one that wouldn't make me feel sick all the time. My gyno recommended that I try this one since the progesterone pills typically don't cause such harsh side effects as the estrogen ones. Well I took the first one last night (only 1!) and I woke up about 8 hours later feeling nauseous. I went to get up to hurry to the bathroom and the next thing you know I started feeling really dizzy and I passed out. When I woke up and realized that I was laying flat on my bedroom floor, I crawled over to my bathroom and just hung over the toilet for awhile. I had completely broken out into a heavy, cold sweat. Up until I took that pill, I was fine...not feeling nauscious or dizzy at all. Needless to say, I'm not taking these pills again. I rather use a condom than deal with t
Stopped bleeding in first 2 weeks but then became ineffective, however I tried for another month with continued light bleeding as I was reluctant to stop in case I got the heavy bleeding. I eventually stopped as it caused mild constant migraines for 2 weeks & I realised the unusual low libido was a side effect.
Month four still bleeding
I agree with all the reviews that mention weight gain, cramps, constant bleeding, depression and horrible migranes. That being said, I stuck it out and have now been on this pill every day for the past 4 years. I have not had a period or any bleeding at all in 3 years. The cramps lasted a while but my doctor said it was because this med thins the uterus and causing uterin pain, not ovarian cramps like your period. The cramps lasted almost a year ... every day! but now that Ive been on it so long, I don't get headaches, my energy level is awesome, I can exercise again, no cramps, no bleeding. Its basically a miracle medication. Your sex drive basically disappears which sucks and the acne never really goes away but no more trips to the ER for insane pain so that's a fair tradeoff in my mind. It's also very hard to lose the weight that this meds causes. Good luck ladies. If you're being treated for endometriosis, I say stick it out and the side affects will subside eventually. At least I hope.
I thought I would try the most minimum dose pill to avoid pregnancy because I ALWAYS get these crazy achey calves EVERY AND ANY kind of combo pill I take. I assumed it was the estrogen just because everyone and everywhere warns that it is what causes blood clot type issues. Literally 3 pills in(3!), I already started getting acne on my otherwise clear face, back, and chest, and my legs went absolutely crazy! Not only did they just ache, they hurt tremendously. I could hardly keep them still let alone in any comfortable position. I was shocked, and I'm pretty sure my nurse questioned my sanity when I told her. She kept repeating that just progestin should not cause such symptoms. Needless to say I quit them immediately. It took about a week for it to completely subside. It was unreal. For all of my fellow women out there it is not just synthetic estrogen causing messed up symptoms, but apparently also the progestin. I know my body, and off the pill my calves are happy and painless.
Worse contraception ever. I was prescribed this nonsense 10 weeks ago and had received 10-14 day cycles in between. Normally, my cycles are 4-5 days. Since I am breastfeeding, I am very limited to my options of contraception. I have to mentally prepare my for the upcoming migraine once taken. They're so intense. The bleeding is the worse for me. I dislike cycles as is and I rather be careful with my partner and revert to my old scheduled periods than to deal with another day with this pill in my body. I really hope my body can revert to its old cycle. I do not recommend this at all! Unbelievable, here I am, Day 12 of my third cycle within two months and I am still bleeding!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This is my second time on this birth contro pill Norethindrome. I thought that trying it again after having my son my side effects would be different but this time it started within the second week of taking them! I am bloated, tender breast, mood swings, headaches, sharp pains in my head, and sudden sadness throughout the day! I thought it would be great because I breastfeed but I will not be taking anymore.
This drug is the worst. I rapidly gained weight within 3 days of taking it. I just had a baby and felt fine until I went on this medication. Besides the weight gain, ive experienced the worst migraines of my life and bleeding heavier than I've ever have before and intense nausea and diarrhea. I would never recommend this to someone.
I've been taking Movisse for 10 months now. I started this pill because of sever period cramps I got and horrible pms. I couldn't go to school, work, or even move. At first the pill helped with the pain... I still definitely experience cramps but with the medication my doctor has provided it's a manageable pain. However, since taking this pill I bleed 80% of the month. To the point where I don't even know which bleeding is my actual period anymore. I've noticed a pattern where I bleed for about 5 to 7 days then stop another about 3 to 6 days and bleed again. 90% of the time it's FULL out bleeding not spotting. This is also accompanied with cramps! I hate it! I was originally prescribed this and not the combined bc because I suffer from migraines. This pill has turned my life upside down. I will be switching to another pill hopefully this week.
I actually was looking online for the side effects if norethindrone, and I'm so happy to finally feel not crazy. I was put on this for heavy menstrual cycles (something new to me). I had been on my period for 18 days when this was prescribed and it worked within 3 days to stop my cycle, great! I was ok for about 4 weeks then began to start spotting and horrible cramps!!! I called my dr and they said this was normal but to call if the bleeding got heavier. It did, and now they've doubled my dose. I take 10mg twice a day. The cramps.are.the.worst! I'm bleeding heavily again, I'm suffering insomnia now (something I've never had) and headaches. I'm scheduled for a hysteroscopy and anablation but not for another month. I do not recommend
I started taking this about a week ago, I was instructed to take one 5mg pill for 14 days, due to my abnormal bleeding with the nexaplon implant in my arm (birth control implant). I have had cramps before but not to this extent. They just became super intolerable, I've had to run to the restroom constantly but it's like I'm constipated that nothing comes out even though I'm in serious abdominal pain. I would become extremely nauseous for absolutely no reason. These pills do seem to work for some people but for me I just couldn't put myself through the pain any longer. I would rather put up with my irregular bleeding than have to go through those pains.
I started taking Norethindrone in October 2018. I've been bleeding every day since December. My doctor told me to stop taking them for a week then restart. She said that would stop the bleeding. It didn't help. I've been having the worse cramps and huge blood clots. Taking this medication is the worse mistake. I'm miserable!
Was using this as part of an hrt combination. Gained ten pounds when I started it, lost ten when I quit. At first I had horrible abdominal cramps. After three weeks that subsided and the 3 am migraines began. I've never had migraines other than when taking birth control pills - I've got to assume this chemical is triggering them. I have had awful depression and anxiety my whole life and this stuff made actually made me feel worse. Definite down vote.
I'm still on pack one and I'm miserable. Not sure how you ladies lasted months. Week three side effects: breast tenderness, extreme nausea, mood swings, vomiting, bloating, cravings, etc. Worst experience of my life. I shouldn't be this sick, I immediately trashed the pack. It's poison! To all of you women who are not experiencing any side effects consider yourself lucky.
I'm so surprised by these reviews. This drug has changed my life. I take 5mg every day. I had fibroids and endometriosis that had to be removed by surgery, periods that lasted for ten days and I was anemic. After my surgery I was put on this and my period has stopped completely. A miracle! My only side effects are some vaginal dryness and maybe less interest in sex.
I started this medication to stop my constant bleeding. My doctor put me on this January 28th 2019. Ever since that day my body has been going further and further down hill everyday:( It is now February 27th I Was still taking these pills up until I read these reviews last night and realized these have to be what is causing me all of this pain/weirdness going on with me. So before starting this medication I had nothing weird/wrong going on with me at all (besides the constant bleeding, which I've battled with this issue since I was a teenager) now since taking this I have HORRIBLE cramps! I have never not once in my life had cramps before now. The cramps are so so painful I can hardly bare them! Aside from the cramps I've had major ance. Before I would never really get ance! Maybe every once in a blue moon..but now it's bad! I've been having major blood clots falling out of me, mild headaches, really bad emotional issues! I will be fine one minute then fill really sad or down the next. This has never happen to me before! I've had constipation one day, Diarrhea the next! Then not be able to go for 2 or 3 days! It's so weird.. I do not like the way this medication is making me feel
After reading these reviews I was very nervous to try the mini pill. I was on the combo pill for 5 months and it increased my blood pressure tremendously. I finally switched after talking to a few people I know that are on the mini pill. I just finished my first pack and I have no regrets. I bled for about 3 days after the first week and then it stopped. I don't noticed any other side effects. I work out regularly, and eat healthy, it did not cause weight gain, I was still able to lose weight. Sometimes I do feel I am very hungry(although that could be just me lol) the only negative side effect I have, which started with the combo pill, is BACKNE. But other than that I really have no complaints. Don't let reviews scare you away, I should have done this sooner. Everyone's body is different, some will hate it, but you might even up loving it like me(so far).
I would not recommend this birth control. I took it after I had my second child and within 3 weeks developed extreme depression, irritability and mood swings. I noticed a difference immediately after I stopped taking them.
I cant describe to you how tired I am on this medication. I fall asleep exhausted and wake up equally tired. It doesnt matter if I sleep for 8 hours, 10 hours or 14 hours. I am Always. Tired. I've gained 25 lbs since switching to this medication in November (now february) and cannot take it a second longer. I have extreme mood swings (very outside my personality), cry all the time, and am constantly hungry. I have not had my period since taking it which is great but overall I would highly not recommend this birth control if you do not have to take it.
Experienced the worst cramp pain I have ever had in my life! Also experiencedskin discoloration on my face which will hopefully go away when I stop taking this pill, but may be permanent. Do NOT recommend this brand. You can experience the great effects (no periods, etc.) with other pills
I bleed constantly. I talked to the OBGYN and she says give it more time.. two months from that visit I still bleed daily. The birth control is obviously effective cause you can never have sex, you bleed every single day. Don't use.
I was put on this medication because I could not longer take a pill with estrogen because yewrsif use had made me develop a liver adenoma (non cancerous tumor). I switched to this pill for 21 days. I was nauseous the entire time. I could barely eat. I drank mostly shakes just to get something in my body. I lost 5 lbs in 21 days. I began to urinate blood which I never have in my entire 33 years of life and have excruciating cramp like pain. I went to an urgent care then for a catscan and sono. They found no UTI, no kidney stones, no ovarian cysts. The urgent care Doctor and myself believe it was just some effect of the pill. I have since come off it. I am able to at and no blood in urine. I do not recommend.
I was prescribed this drug by my GY/ON to stop my continueous bleeding issue. One pill worked for about a month than I began spotting everyday for months. I was brought up to two pills a day. Yes, it stopped the bleeding, thankfully, but not the cramps. I am now part of a study to shrink my Fibros which is my problem for the bleeding. Once I came off this medication, I felt less tired, all I wanted to do was sleep throughout the day, and couldn't sleep right at night. I am thankful to feel better!
Started this pill after I had my daughter in October 2018 an the 1st two month were smooth had a pretty decent period then this month Feb 2019 it started off light i began my period January 28 an here it its feb 12 an I'm stillll BLEEDING an it shows no signs of stopping. So I've decided to stop taking it cause this is ridiculous I'm starting to get more headaches but besides that I had loved it cause I really had no side effects but this overwhelming bleeding I cannot do.
This is the worst BC pill I have ever been on! My doctor switched me to the .35mg dose from Necon as I have been on BC for 33 yrs, am near menopause age and have migraines. The only good thing is I haven't had my period in 5 months. But the side effects are horrific. Mood swings, anxiety, crying, sweating, severe, severe body/joint pain, severe leg edema, and acne, feel tired all the time too. Not to mention I've gained 20 pounds!!!! Most horrible pill ever. I don't suggest it for anyone.
EXTREME fatigue. I take it two hours before bed because it gives me nausea. I wake up feeling like I took a sleeping pill an hour before I woke up!
Was put on this because my OB said my blood pressure was to high to be on my other combo pill..........Only been on it for 2 days and after the first 24 hours i started bleeding. The second day, i felt sad and down. By the end of the second day the bleeding was heavy and the cramps are so unbearable. Its day 3, bleeding is even heavier,and the cramps are even worse!!!! I just got over my period last week, every mini pill i take its done this to me... im just done all together, over it and rather just use condoms. Would NEVER recommend to be put on this
Insomnia onset the first few days
I've been taking Norlyda (a generic) for 2 months, I was really trying to give the “3 month trial” but after reading some reviews I'm not sure if I should. I've experienced an increased amount of irritation, anxiety, depression, along with a general lack of motivation to do anything other that sit on my couch crying, while eating ice cream and binge watching the office for the millionth time. Not to mention my breast are the size of watermelons, which I did not ask for
So for years i've had the WORSE periods, EVER! On top of that, i have ovarion cysts, which are supposed to shrink when your cycle ends, but mine do not. So they would cause me extreme pain on top of having a very irregular menstrual cycle to begin with. I often had a very heavy flow and just felt miserable, sometimes id get my period twice a month. I have been taking this for about 4 years now and the only side effects i have ever noticed is i sometimes get dizzy, and sometimes get a little moody. But i take that over having two periods, over excessive bleeding and extreme pain and discomfort. I am almost 27 and am considering taking a break from it to see if my cycle has improved. Also i do not bleed, i get some acne and still have my cravings and my less desire to eat when i do get my period. Everyone's different, so i wouldn't say don't take it, just talk to your doctor to see if it's right for you. For me this was a miracle pill.
I was given this bull crap of a whack pill 10 days ago and within a week I have had migraines everyday, blurry vision, irritatbilty, heavier period (which is why I went to the doctor in the first place), passing half dollar sized blood clots, weakness and shakiness, fatigue, cravings for carbohydrates, feeling bloated, and to top it off yeah still bleeding!!!!!! Who the hell test this stuff?!! Clearly they don't understand this is poison and my half baked doctored prescribed poisonous waste of medical science. I would rather just hit myself in the face with a brick and ram uterus into a forged sword before I take anymore of this crap!!!!!
I decided to take this medication because I was going on vacation. It did exactly what my doctor said it would. It delayed my period. However, once my period came on my cramps were horrible, horrific, terrible, unbearable. I missed two days of work because I could not function. Stay away from this pill, dont take it.
This is a magic med! I have been bleeding almost continuously for over 2 years. So I went to see a new doctor. He prescribed it on Wednesday and by Thursday the bleeding was 98% stopped. By Monday - 6 days later - it had stopped completely. I wore pants today that weren't black or navy for the first time in years!!! I can bend sideways, and lift things without a clot breaking loose! I'm going to go back to the gym! Seriously, I feel like this is giving me my life back. No side effects either. Although I have to say, even if I grew a mustache and a tail I'd probably keep taking it, it's that much of a relief. I read all the reviews and at first was on the fence about it, but it seems like this is really a subjective product - you have to try it to see if it works for you. For me, it's 5 stars.
I have been taking Norethindrone .35mg for about a year this go around. I have tried just about every birth control available and this is the one I always go back to. I got pregnant with Paragard IUD and bled the entire six months I had the Nexplanon implant. The combination pill made me hormonaly crazy. I originally wanted to get the mirena IUD put in after I got Nexplanon out, but couldn't because I had had unprotected sex during the week with no birth control. The practitioner at Planned Parenthood recommended going on the pill until I got my period again just to make sure I wasnt pregnant when she put in the IUD. I had no side effects whatsoever with the pill and decided to forego the idea of the IUD and stay on the minipill. So happy I did. It's truly a blessing to have birth control that makes me feel like a normal human, not a hysterical ball of hormones.
I have white coat hypertension and I'm 35 years old. I've been on birth control since 18 and I've used several different pills during that time. My doctor made me switch to a no estrogen pill because of the blood pressure issue and my age. I HATE it. I am stopping this pill after giving it a try for about 6 months. The breaking point is the spotting which hasn't gotten better in a 6 mo time frame. I've destroyed underwear, pants, chairs, sheets. The bleeding start, then slacken over a few days, then woosh... Full on bleeding at random again. My bleeding as lasted for 2-3 weeks out of every month. I've had the worst period cramps I have ever had. PMS for 2-3 weeks out of a month. Bloating. I've gained weight. Like I said, I've used about 5 different pills in the course of my life. They've all had some side effects, but nothing like this. Beware.
This not only helped get me back on a normal cycle (at first), it helped with my horrible cramping and terrible period symptoms I was experiencing (mood swings, depression, bloating, heavy bleeding, clotting), it also made it to where I didn't experience one at all while taking this after a few months use (I'm not complaining, it was honestly nice to not deal with it). I was prescribed .30 mg/peach colored pill, and it has been amazing how its helped me. I just hope it continues to work in future months!
I love this pill tremendously. I had an iud previously which I loved but my body rejected it twice to the base of my cervix, with the last rejection resulting in a pregnancy that did not make it. Being estrogen dominant to begin with, I can't take the combo pills because the extra estrogen spikes my blood pressure to very unhealthy levels. I was put on the mini pill for pre menopause symptom control and contraception. I must admit I love it. I have more energy, less mind fog, my hair isn't falling out anymore, haven't gained any weight and have a libido back! And at 41 thats a plus. Its working for my body and I'm thrilled. Everyone will be different, so since it is rapidly reversible, like will be out of your body within 24 hours (which is why you have to take it the same time to not get pregnant) you have nothing to lose. Good luck!
It's important to consider, norethindrone is prescribed in different strengths, 5mg and 0.35mg. I started on this pill at 5mg, alongside Nexplanon, taken before bed and my endometriosis and crazy periods stopped completely. It was amazing! But then... I started having bad migraines, was sleeping terribly and BADLY moody depressy. It was interfering with my everyday life, so I stopped. I've since cut back to the 0.35 pill, trying to figure out a dose that helps but doesn't also kill me. So far, 0.35 mg is significantly better. Time will tell, though...
I absolutely love this birth control!!! I will not lie at first it was hard to adjust to; it made me sweat more than normal but once my body adjusted I was good to go! It completely stopped my periods which is awesome! I love not having periods, but now a year later I'm experiencing an acne break out once a month which in my eyes is sort of replacing my period so I can't complain. I originally switched from the nuva ring because it was too many hormones for my body so I decided to go with a low hormone option instead.
I became pregnant while taking Norethindrone and then miscarried
I was on a tri-phasic pill before this, and the 0.35 dose has worked perfect for me over the past year. No side effects for me. I hate to read all the bad reviews and what people have gone through, but everyone is so different.
Worst birth control ever! My dr never told me about the side effects. Dizziness, daily headaches and muscle pain....but i can deal with all of those. What i CAN NOT deal with is 28 days straight of heavy bleeding. I stopped it immediately. They should not even make this pill anymore. It made me completely miserable. I have been on birth control since 16 and at 26 i have never had such a horrible experience.
I won't lie, the firs three months on this pill kinda sucked. But I expected this and stuck in there. My worst side effect was spotting, which I never really used to experience; and irregular periods. I had two periods in one month once, only 8 days between cycles. I'm into my fourth pack and so far things are looking up. I haven't had any spotting for a while, and it looks like my period is actually going to be at its normal time this month. You have to take this pill at the same time everyday, so really consider your routine, schedule, etc. when choosing when to take it. It is most effective for 20 hours so keep that in mind in correlation with when you are most likely to have sex. For me 12 pm is perfect.
I've been taking for almost 3 months and have been experiencing headaches every day since starting, extreme fatigue, issues with sleeping and moodiness. I never had luck with any birth control pill in the past but decided to give this one and try and I regret it. I am absolutely stopping today.
I use this for extreme bleeding due to hormonal imbalance (I am 46). It is a wonder drug to stop bleeding. I also used it in a small dose as the mini pill for years. As the mini pill it agreed with me much better than the combined pill, and I was not so angry. I had very little pain. Now in peri menopause, I realized I was estrogen dominant and my progesterone hormone dropped (this happens before menopause, your hormones go nuts). I use it in a high dose at 5mg, 2-4 tabs per day and it has stopped my bleeding (I had my period for almost a whole year, and was very anemic). I think it also helped shrink my fibroid form 9cm to 1cm. I combined this drug with a low estrogenic diet (no inorganic meat, lots of veggies, organic dairy, no use of plastic containers or bottles, filtered water, no paraben in cosmetics etc look it up). FOR me this is a WONDERDRUG. It helps me sleep, it makes me feel happy and excited about life again, and it stopped my bleeding - I take less to give myself a period now, and inbetween to prevent heavy bleeding I take 3-4 a day. My doc is observing and this is only until I hit menopause in a couple years. This drug gave me my life back (Aygestin is its name).
I will never recommend this birth control. I have taking this for month and one day. My bleeding was light but I bleed every day. I notice after a week of taking the pill my right leg started to hurt. The last week of taking the pill my leg started to hurt. Now I thought I over did something until today on 01/13/19 I had to get me a cane to walk. I look at the side effects the headaches yes...dizziness yes...poor circulation YES...I have this da@# doctor that did not listen or even cared about concern or even took the time read my medical records...this is a pill that no woman should take over 35...I'm 49 years old this pill have given me another health issue I did not need and I believe he knew it.I now have to find me another gyn doctor who is not male...DO NOT TAKE THIS PILL THE SIDE EFFECT ARE REAL....
i have been on the pill for a year as a birth control and got pregnant 3 times!!!!! DO NOT take this for birth control!!!
I'm 15 and I've been taking this for two months because of really bad cramps and heavy bleeding that's probably (but not confirmed) endometriosis. I took the combined pill for a while but my bad cramps didn't really go away and it made me super depressed and angry, so I started taking this. It's different for everyone, but on this my periods have completely stopped. I have a little bit of pelvic pain most of the time now, which kinda sucks but it's better than what I had before so I'll take it. This is much better than the combined pill if you have depression because now I'm much less depressed than before.
I was prescribed norethindron .35 about a week ago and 2 days I stopped it 2 days ago. I orignally asked my doctor about trying a birth control because I was told I had thick uterine lining. I cant believe I took this stuff I wish my doctor would have explained the side effects. Omg cramps discomfort morebleeding. After I had already expressed to the doctor my period lasted for 16 days. Im frustrated. I bled over the new years restricted to my bed. Not fun for me.
DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. I was prescribed Norethindrone for my endometriosis and enlarged uterus. I was excited because there was an explanation of my painful menstrual cycles. This medication was supposed to regulate my cycle stop the pain from cramps and the doctor it could even maybe stop my periods from coming. Well... I've been taking this for 3 weeks and have bleed everyday since taking it. I have headaches everyday and sometimes dizziness. It has affected my mood making me irritable and angry for no good reason. My desire for intimacy is decimal but even If I could. I'm bleeding... At this rate I would rather deal with 6days of pain than continuous bleeding and migraines daily.
My doctor told me to start taking these pills on the first day of my period and I did so. After only 6 days I've decided that getting put on this medicine has actually made me feel even worse and is the biggest mistake ever. My periods usually last around 6-7 days and I cramp the first couple of days, if that. I started to realize that this medicine was negatively impacting me whenever I got to the 5th day of my period cycle. I was cramping severely and bleeding heavier than I usually would on the 5th day and also had more blood clots(I never clot on the 5th day) I'm very angry because I was lead to believe that this would shorten my period and lighten it and also reduce my cramping and here I am left bleeding more and cramping way more. I've also noticed that it's made me extremely irritated at everything. Definitely stopping this bullsh*t medicine immediately. To anyone thinking about taking it, DON'T. I'm lucky to have found and read some of you ladies reviews as soon as I did! So sorry to those who were negatively impacted by this medicine.
Horrible I was put on it because abnormal bleeding and waa told I had a thick uterine lining. Im very upset because ptevious I had spoken to the doctor but was not givin a heads up about the side effects. I had told them I just previously had a period that lasted for 16 days, then i was told they wanted to do another biopsy of my uterus which i declined. I nstead I ask about birth control only to take it and bleeding again gor another half of the month. Im tired. Im frustrated.
Been on it for two months and I have been bleeding NON-STOP for 36 days. Called Dr, no call back. Made another appointment but it's not for 2 more weeks.
I'm on my second month on this pill I love it back to my old self no periods so far and no side effects. I have tried many birth control and this is the best for me so far. The doctor wanted to try without the estrogen cause I was having a lot of side effects with that.
This medicine was prescribed to me by my doctor for heavy bleeding. My menstrual cycles cause me to lose blood to the point that I am have had to receive iron infusions. The first thing that I noticed was that my mood changed. I was always sad and thinking negative thoughts. This pill made my cycles heavier and they lasted longer. I also experienced a lot of spotting and breakthrough bleeding. This is not healthy for someone that is already experiencing a lot of blood loss. I have been taking it for over three months and I plan to throw it away today. I don't even care about the consequences.
I hate this pill! My periods are MUCH lighter, but they last longer! Like almost two weeks! I have an insatiable appetite.. the day before my period I have excruciating cramps and back ache! Ugh! Discontinuing use immediately. (Tried it for 3 months)
I began this drug 2 months ago and honestly I love my doctor for it. I have suffered from severe abnormal bleeding since I was 12 (now 20). I have tried all different birth controls and nothing worked. This 5 mg pill saved my sanity and in turn resolved most of my down there problems. It is such a small dose and I haven't bled since I began taking it with no signs of starting. Thank you for giving me my life back.
I am taking this medication to help treat Abnormal Uterine bleeding. I have been taking this since Novemer 20th. It seemed to work after 3 days and I was so excited to finally have stopped bleeding after 20 days straight. It lasted for about 1 1/2 weeks with no bleeding. Then come Dec 1 and the bleeding is back and heavier and now its acommpanied with pain. Not sure if my body stopped responding to the medication but Im going on another 2 weeks of hell.
I have been on this pill since October 2018 because of hormonal issues that caused heavy period flows that became unbearable. I am on this pill until my upcoming surgery to resolve this issue without needing further meds. My period has stopped completely and I don't notice any side effects except maybe a slight weight gain of at least 5 pounds, maybe 7. I am happy with this as a temporary fix to control my heavy periods.
I've been taking this for 2 and a half months now. I'm in the middle of my 3rd pack and my period from the last pack lasted 2 and a half weeks. The only reason i chose this was because i couldnt afford the depot shot, my doctor said this would be a good choice because its almost the same as the shot, but is a pill instead. I was told it wouldnt stop my period like the shot but would definitely help. My flow is still very heavy and is just as long. I was, however, informed by my doctor this isnt the type to regulate your period so i was aware it would only do so much for it. I was surprised that my last period lasted double the time it normally does. If you have a choice, I would say to just get the shot, you only get it every 3 months with a window of about 2-3 weeks to get it again before any concern of pregnancy. It also gets rid of your period after the 3rd shot. I wish i just got the shot.
I have been on Norethindrone for 12 days. I started bleeding on day 3 and it stopped on day 6. I have exprienced headaches 5 out of the 12 days, nausea, upset stomach, and cramping pain every day. I usually don't have a problem with depression, but I have started feeling very depressed in the last few days. I did not have breast tenderness, increased weight Gabe nor increased acne. The endometriosis pain for 2-3 days is much better than feeling awful sick every single day for me.
I got prescribed Norethindrone to stop a period I had already got 9 days early and at the moment I was bleeding going on for 11 days. The first day I took the pill a couple hours later I got a severe pain in the middle of my abdomen. So severe I couldn't moved and crying and gasping for air soon followed. I'm reviewing this today because it's my last day I will ever take it. It then continued to cause me pain almost toward my shoulder but flat on the chest area. This pain is so excruciating it takes all the breathe away from you and I can't do anything but cry through it. I wouldn't take this brand of you know you're super sensitive to medicine. I just didn't think it would do me that terrible!!
I wish I would have listened to the reviews on this page and never taken this drug. I was prescribed this for heavy period flow. I started taking it the first day of my normal period and thought it was great because I hardly had any flow at all. Sure, it gave me bad headaches and I was dizzy but not having much flow was great. Fast forward three weeks and I still have my period. I have mood swings, acne, I am insanely hungry all the time, and I still have headaches and dizziness. I realize I'm supposed to give my body time to get used to this medication but I'm done. These side effects are just too much for me. I stopped the pills yesterday and now, surprise- I've got my period! Oh, and the cramps were unbearable and kept getting worse every day. I'm done and I wish I had never taken these pills.
I have been taking norethindrone 0.35 mg for 2.5 years and it works great for me! I have had zero bad side effects that so many others have suffered through. I do take it at the same time (within the same hour) every day. I happily never get my period! My OBGYN said this is common with this pill and totally fine. It will not effect your fertility at all. I do take a pregnancy test about every 8 weeks just since there's no period to re-assure me I'm not pregnant. I'm hoping if I keep taking it daily at the same time it will keep working as it should!
I am taking the pill for heavy menstrual bleeding I been on them for a month and 3 days my bleeding is much worse than it was before taking this pill.y period usually last for 7 to 8 days but now I been on for 2 weeks and still bleeding I'm so through with these pills I wouldn't recommend them to my worse enemy oh by the way I really never used to cramp but thanks to these pills I have medicate my self to death for the pain.??
I started this medication in October. By November I realized it was this medication that was making me extremely irritable, extremely tired, and have gained weight. My pants are tight, thighs are touching, my boobs are huge and super sensitive and my cramps are back. I haven't had cramps since high school (I'm 35 and have been on a type of birth control pill for the last 12 years.) I hate this pill! I'm going back to the doctor in December and getting off of it immediately. I suffer from migraines and they are extremely painful. I'd rather have a migraine then feel the way I feel on this medication.
I've been on the pill for 2 years. Very limited side effects. We have to remember every woman's body will respond differently. Before taking the pill my cycle would last from 3-5 days now it's 5-7. Also, my flow is still light to moderate. Overall I'm satisfied.
I have been on this drug for about a year due heavy, clot-filled, and prolonged periods to the point where I had to receive blood transfusions every other month in addition to extreme pain. The drug has completely stopped my bleeding and my pain. However, since being on the drug, I have gained 25+ pounds, have blood pressure issues and am now on blood pressure pills and my blood glucose levels are high. I am going to discuss a change in medication with my doctor but I'm not sure of an alternative aside from a full hysterectomy.
I gained 15 lbs in 3 months. If you worried about weight gain do not take this medication.
DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION I'm a ER nurse. I've been taking this medication for two months. My bleeding is so bad my doctor told to take 2 pills a day for two weeks. I have really bad bleeding. I've had blood transfusions and iron infusion too many to count. My bleed is so bad, out of 90 days I've bleed 85 of them. I have to use an overnight pad and ultra tampon with changing every 30 to 45 mins or everything is saturated. I didn't notice any changes with the bleeding until I Started taking two. I notice after 1st 3 weeks water retention in my hands, wrist, legs, and feet. I also noticed bloating worse than ever that I attributed to the bleeding. Well today two months later I've gained 25 pounds, can hardly go up stairs with being short of breath. My stomach has gotten huge. I'm looking 7 months pregnant, and I've had a huge lost of energy and I feel blah! Every few days I get an explosive migraine. I don't recommend and the risk outweighs the benefits for these.
Love this pill!! No side effects why so ever! The last stuff I was on make me so emotional and my anxiety was at an all time high and I was just terrible! But ever since they took me off estrogen I feel great and bad to my old self!! Ive only need on this 1 month and when I started them I felt a huge difference the first week I took them! Definitely recommend!!
Terrible mood swings, hair loss and 10lb weight gain within 2 months. I am off of it now.
I am taking this medication to prevent pregnancy. I am 3 months post-partum at 28 years old and do not want anymore children. I do not have any ob/gyn issues. I have taken combo pills before and truely hated them due to side effects of anxiety, low libido, and moodiness. I have only been taking norelyda for 1 1/2 months. At first i felt low libido and moodiness with a period that lasted two days. My libido has returned slightly and i feel my mood is more normal. No terrible effects so far. I do not feel bloated... maybe a slight appetite increase at most.
I am so so so glad I found these reviews now I KNOW I am not the only one. I have been on this medication for 5 + years and I have no idea how I have lasted this long. I have had an insane amount of weight gain and sometimes my period would last for 3 weeks! It is horrible and I am going off of it finally. Can't wait until it is out of my system!
Taken for 2 months gained almost 10 pounds. I've been taking since I had my baby. I have had my period in the middle of my cycle I missed one pill and end up getting my period really heavy
I've been on this drug for 3 weeks now. I have zero libido, horrible mood swings, nausea, bloating, headaches, sore breasts, oily skin, acne, and I've gained 7 pounds! Do not take this medication!
I started taking this pill after I had a miscarriage to help get my body back in order and help my period become regular again. I also can't take pills with estrogen so she recommended this. That was the worst mistake of my life. I have only been taking this for a week and a half and it is terrible. I have migraines every single day to the point of vomiting and having to leave work, I have been having spotting and I just all around do not feel like myself. After reading all these reviews, I know I'm not alone and I think I'm gonna stop taking it too.
I take this drug because I'm breastfeeding and am limited to the contraception I can take while doing so. This pill has broken my face out terribly and made me gain 15lbs over the past year.
To start i am 54 years old and went to my gynecologist for my yearly checkup. She was surprised to learn i still had monthly periods. I stupidly mentioned they were heavy for a few days and it made me anemic so my regular doctor has me taking daily iron supplements. She right away said i should take Norlyda a birth control pill and that it would stop my periods completely or lighten them. I didn't need birth control as my tube were tied at age 41 after my 3rd child. After taking them for 2 weeks i got my period and noticed it was the same if not a little worse. I called and she said to continue taking them. So now I've been on them for almost 2 months and i cannot touch my breasts they hurt so badly and this last period wont stop!!!!! It's been over a week and is continuing to be heavier and worse than I ever had. I should have researched this more...i called doctor who still tells me to keep taking them....I THREW THEM OUT!!!. I HIGHLY DO NOT RECOMMEND TAKING THESE AT ANY AGE.
My periods were intense-heavy bleeding with large clots, but the kicker was the pain. I believe it was my right ovary, my gyn could never figure it out. I went to her to schedule a unilateral oophorectomy - it was scheduled for one month but in the mean time she put me on Norethindrone to help with the pain...after two weeks I noticed the pain was gone! I have had unfortunate side effects such as weight gain, swelling in the feet and more headaches than usual but compared to the pain I was experiencing before, these side effects are worth it. Surgery was canceled and my fingers are crossed this drug is the answer to my prayers.
This pill made me so psychotic and depressed, I quit 2 jobs. My Dr told me to keep taking it this second time, and I am losing my mind. Nauseous, headaches, combined with the fatigue from being anemic will be the death of me.
I've had a really good experience with these pills. No real side effects or any thing that I'd complain about. Sometimes it's hard to take the pill at EXACTLY the same time every day because you might not be home or forget to bring the pills with you. Everyone is different, but it's worth a shot. The combo pills and Deposit were hell for me.
Experienced major depressive symptoms almost immediately. Took it for almost 2 months and it wasn't getting any better. Discontinued use in September 2018. Didn't take long for me to feel better since it is a very effective pill, with very effective hormones, which is the reason why you have to take it at the same time every single day . Felt better the next day. Won't be returning to this pill, as I already suffer from bipolar disorder and my moods are already easily affected. My provider also would not prescribe me anything with estrogen in it because I used to suffer from migraines. I haven't had a migraine in years, so I didn't appreciate that she use that as a determining factor as to where there to give me a "mini pill" or not. I didn't like taking Depo either because of the crazy spotting, and I definitely wasn't going to get an IUD as was suggested. Either myself or my husband will be getting our "tubes tied", clamped, or severed, Lol, instead of taking synthetic hormones, as we do not want any more children.
This caused me weight gain of about 20 lbs over a year, and it causes HORRIBLE menstrual cramps. 9/10 on the pain scale, that's how bad the pain was for me.
I have had heavy abnormal bleeding to the point I had to have blood transfusions because my hemoglobin dropped and taking norethindrone has helped me tremendously, it took several weeks to stop it as I needed to find the right dose at 10mg twice daily. PROS: No more bleeding, my monthly extreme PMS have not returned. CON: Weight gain, always feeling hungry.
Pros: period stopped completely, previous bleeding was so bad that I was looking at surgery Cons: weight gain, swelling in feet, increased acne and facial hair, hair loss, headaches in the beginning but that got better. At this time, I am finding side effects more tolerable than my period, may look for something better.
I'm going to stop taking this drug ASAP. I was prescribed 5MG of this a month ago. Since then, I've bled nonstop, had wild mood swings, suffered horrible abdominal cramping, insomnia increase, acne, and diarrhea. Literally the only reason I went to this OBGYN was to get on regular birth control to help with harsh, painful periods. This woman proceeded to inform me that since I suffer from migraines I am not eligible for birth control and either need to let her install and IUD or take this shit. The way she pushed for me to take the IUD (Mirena specifically) rubbed me the wrong way, so I opted to try this. God I'm an idiot.
I've had a 4 week long period and have had severe period cramps and head aches. Awful pill, definitely going to be coming off.
Do not like this pill at all. I started taking it because I was bleeding every two weeks and my OBGYN thought this pill would be good. I started out with only 5 mg and had to double dose it because I kept bleeding. Well, after 5 months of being on this pill, I have to wear a tampon every day because I still bleed. I rarely have had acne and now with being in the pill, the acne is horrible. I get tingleness in my arms and I'm 100% tired all the time. I feel depressed and moody. Going to Dr in a week to get IUD placed. Oh, this pill is also VERY expensive without insurance!
I got put on this in hopes that my migraines would get better. Nope! I have migraines the same if not more then I did before switching. My period now comes sooner than before and it lasts longer and really heavy! No sex drive at all! Depressed/sad all the time. Thinks it's time for this to come to an end.
Started to take this as a form of contraception since I can't take estrogen. I've been on it for 6 weeks, and I'm stopping tonight. The first two weeks were fine aside from some moodiness and a bit of leg pain. Then, I experienced a week of increased libido and spotting, which was fine (not complaining about that). But after that week, I've been bleeding ever since and I feel miserable. My breasts hurt. The bleeding is not just light bleeding, it's HEAVY. My hair is falling out (which according to my gyno is impossible, but there's NOTHING else that could be thinning my super thick hair). My leg pain is still there, and I sometimes lose feeling in my feet. My mood is so bad that it is SEVERELY affecting my relationship. I have no motivation, and I want to cry ALL the time. I'm supposed to give it another month, but it truly seems like these symptoms are not going to lighten up. SO, bye bye Sharobel. Hopefully, we'll never meet again.
This contraceptive made me bat $#!+ crazy. I was so psycho. Stopped taking it, poof, crazy gone!
My doctor put me on this drug after having my baby and I am unable to take any birth control containing estrogen. I have been on it for Approx two months and have experienced the following: hair loss, acne, insomnia, depression, anxiety and back pain. After having a mini mental break down, finally put two and two together, that this pill is the culprit. I am stopping this medication ASAP, my husband and kids need me back to being myself. This stuff is terrible, never again!
i started taking this birth control after having my baby and right when i started taking this pill i immediately bleed like crazy which was to be expected but then i started having depression feeling sluggish and sad then stated having large blood clots coming out of me as well i stopped the pill right away. i would not recommend this
Felt like had continual PMT and very tired
I was prescribed this after giving birth since I was breastfeeding. After stopping breastfeeding, I was still prescribed this so I kept taking it. "doctors know best??" Well Since giving birth/being back on birth control, its hard to say what is to blame for what but I'll just list all the abnormal things. My period is once every two months but lasts for two weeks with spotting almost every day in between. Zero sex drive (maybe because I'm always wearing a pad?) depression (Is it still considered post partum a year and a half later??) I don't know if its the birth control to blame or the new found joys of motherhood. But I've never felt so much of not myself as I have since beginning this medication. Switching to aviane to see if that helps
I have had no problem with this pill. The worst thing that happened is it made me hungry when I first started taking this pill. Otherwise its wonderful. My period has always lasted on a week but not it is a lot less painful and my acne has cleared up quite a bit. Very happy.
Took this for perimenopause bleeding. Worst cramps I've had in 30 years! Did not even ease up the bleeding. I threw this crap in the bottom drawer!
I started taking this because i only got my period once every few months. I had been on loesterin a few years ago but the doctor wanted to give me this instead. After one month of taking it ive gain 10 lbs in water weight, ive had my period for the last 3 weeks, constant migrains, horrible mood swings, manic depressive episodes, horrible acne, and my sex drive is completely gone. Would not reccomend this for anyone.
I'm so glad I found this website! I thought I was dying!!! I've been taking this crap for 3 months & it has only made my life even more miserable! I'm going on a 3 week long period & lemme tell ya Mama is NOT happy!! I could not find any reason why this is happening to me but I read all of you wonderful ladies horror stories & THANK YOU for sharing your stories.Nit only was I convinced I was going to croak to death by non stop bleeding from my vag I have gained 15 freaking pounds & I'm getting acne & its not helped my painful heavy periods & I'm going broke from buying pads & tampons & I'm now anemic & I'm moody as hell! Ughhhh! I want to slap my doctor right now. I wasn't told of these side effects being so severe for some women I just blindly trusted my Doctor. Well I'm throwing my mini pills away in garbage where they belong. I'll have to try something else & never again these terrible BC pills! Thanks again gals for sharing your stories. i guess I will live to see another day. -Peace - Love
This birth control was awful. The only great thing about these pills that if you're suffering from migraines these pills help. Other than that, I wouldn't recommend them. I've been on these pills for over a year and I have been having a period every eight days. I only stayed on them so long is because I hate having a migraine. I go to the doctor today and can't wait to switch to something else!!!!!!!
I have always had bad migraines but when I started the combination pill January of this year, they got worse and more frequent. My doctor recommended I try this pill instead because avoiding the estrogen could potentially help with my migraines. I am now getting them as often as I used to prior to the combo pill, which is helpful, but I'm not sure the side effects are worth it. My mood swings have been absolutely terrible, I consistently feel bloated, and worst of all, there is NO pattern to my periods at all, even though I take the pill within 20 minutes of the same time everyday. The first month, I spotted for a week and a half before my actual period even started - so it technically lasted over 2 weeks. On the second pack, I started a week early, and I am having heavier bleeding and cramps than I have had in years. I will be contacting my doctor immediately to switch after another month of failure. It seems this product may be good for those with endometriosis, but otherwise, DO NOT take this!! I would rather take a different medication for migraines everyday than deal with this.
After 3 weeks on this drug I had the worst cramps in 30 years! Has not stopped the perimenopause bleeding. I'm stopping this crap tonight!
I started taking low dose Norethindrone a year ago for heavy, nonstop uterine bleeding that went on for six months. After a lot of testing it was determined that I am perimenopausal. Within a month of beginning it, my bleeding was under control and my blood levels were coming back into the normal range. I have had a year of regular monthly periods that last 4-5 days and come pretty predictably each month. Some are really light, some are heavier. I've experienced a few side effects: a little weight gain and feeling hungrier, breast tenderness, and a little moodiness from time to time. But I'm not heavily bleeding every day of my life and I didn't need a hysterectomy, so I'm grateful for it. I'd recommend it to anyone experiencing my symptoms and diagnosis.
I dont, to my knowledge, have endometriosis, however my periods were absolutely horrible before this medication. I was vomiting, my cramps were so bad i usually blacked out, headaches, you name it. With this, my cramps are actually manageable with pain meds, like the pain meds actually help now if theyre needed. The only negatives, and i mean... id take these over the agony i was in, are that ive gained 10lbs (it made me very hungry to begin with), and some acne and bloating. I love this, it has helped so so much.
Unable to take estrogen based Contraceptives. Needed something to help my estrogen withdrawal that occurred 2 weeks every month, making my life unbearable. Been on this BC for 2.5 months. Side effects: no period, spotting, hair loss, acne, extreme fatigue, extreme weight gain, frequent cramping and nipple soreness. Going to stick out a couple more weeks, but not sure these side effects are worth going all natural.
I used to get really heavy periods with unbearable cramping. Two weeks later I would get heavy spotting (enough to warrant a tampon). So I was basically getting my period twice a month with symptoms about 3/4 weeks. I get migraines, so my GYN put me on this thinking my periods would more or less go away. Not the case. I have been taking this pill for about 4 months and I still get terrible periods with excruciating cramps, only now my breasts are also so so swollen and sore. On top of that, I've gained about 20+ pounds. I work out regularly and eat very healthy, so this is very unusual for me. I have been miserable on this. Don't do it. I'm switching to and IUD in a week.
i have been on this pill for about 1 month now. i'm a breastfeeding mom and this is what my doctor prescribed me. the only side effect so far is a little more acne. i don't bleed at all but thats because im breastfeeding. no change in milk supply or in my weight. so far its okay. i will update if anything changes.
My doctor perscribed me this medication for my endometriosis, ive been bleeding so i figured maybe this would help. No ...it not only made the bleeding worse but the pain is unbearable. I am crazy tired. My focus is not good, and ive lost all motivation. I have children so this medication is not for me...they need thier mom.
I have been on the pill for only 2 months now, and it's been horrible. I was late on my first month by four days. I got my period May 18th. The first day was okay with bleeding, then the second day I had such horrible cramps that I was throwing up. I only bled lightly the next few days. Then next thing you know it's May 29th and I get some more blood. Except this time, the cramps are so unbearable that I cannot get out of my bed and stop crying. This medicine has been a nightmare so far. I know I'm early in on taking it, but I do not recommend this to anyone.
Started taking it a few weeks after I gave birth. Been on it for four months now and I've gotten my period every other week since I started, switching to something else.
I began taking this pill in late February/Early March and am going to stop taking it after only a few months. I am currently in a relationship with another female, so I didn't need the pill to be a contraceptive. I simply needed something to lessen the pain of my periods, make them lighter, and shorter. It started out fine with only slight nausea and headaches, but soon became a terrible problem. I had migraines every other day, had terrible mood swings and depressive episodes, and gained a ton of water weight. Oh and remember how I was taking the pill to make my periods more bearable, or even possibly skip them? Instead, I was greeted with 2 weeks of non stop bleeding, flu-like symptoms, cramps worse than I've ever felt, and vomiting. I had to miss a full week of class due to this pill. I gave it time over another month, but here we are again, I'm having the exact same experience. I wouldn't wish this medication on anyone.
I had bad experiances with other forms of birth control to help my endometriosis. Norethindrone completely stopped my periods and pain. I never got any side effects with it. It worked very well, and I would recommened it to anyone having a bad time on other forms of birth control.
I was recommended this pill by my OB because I'm currently breastfeeding. After ending my period, I began taking this and TWO days later I got my period again ! My period is much heavier and I felt very tired. This birth control is horrible! I will stop taking this and switch to something else !
This pill is miserable!!! Started taking it after I had been in a combination pill for 2 years my MD thought my systolic blood pressure was to high at 130 so she recommends Norerthindrone as she felt it would not cause the same problem as the combination pill. The side effects of this pill are too much!!! I started losing my hair gradually a few weeks ago and now it is coming out in clumps! I thought I was going crazy until reading some of the other posts here from women experiencing the same thing. It is extremely depressing and has led to a whole new set of issues. I would never wish this on anyone and am hoping this post helps someone out there to feel like they are not alone in this! Avoid this pill if you can I would rather suffer through my original problem of a very heavy monthly flow than to loose my hair at age 20.
HORRIBLE! Bled for 2 weeks after starting this crap! Of course you won't get pregnant because you will constantly be on your menses! I wouldn't recommend this pill to anyone still having sex because this will have you bleeding more than anything! After 3 weeks of this pill, IM DONE
After delivery my doctor prescribed me this medication coz I am breastfeeding and it was just horrible. I bleed/spotted after every 2 to 3 days. And these bleeding were So painful. Though my doctor already told me that gonna happen but can't take it anymore. Stopped after one month and feeling better.
Wow I'm so happy I came across this site. I've been taking this pill for over 3 years now, ever since my son was born and this was prescribed to me since I was still nursing him. I've stayed on this pill since it's worked perfectly as birth control and I figured why go back to my old pill with an additional hormone when one hormone is working fine. WELL... I never figured that it was this pill that was making me have incredibly irregular periods and having them almost twice a month! Now that I've read that it seems to be the theme with this pill, I've made a dr's appointment to go back to my old one. I always assumed having a baby was what made my periods go half crazy. They used to be like clockwork, I could practically set an alarm for the next one. BTW... I'm currently in day 11 of my period. I'd rather have another baby after 3 years of this ;)
After 3 years taking this pill I'm having period 2 times a month!!! Why??? Dr said the is normal???
This pill is horrendous. I started taking it April 8. April 12, my period came on and is still going. Been extremely heavy and uncomfortable. I was originally prescribed this due to heavy and irregular bleeding. I am not used to this pill and have asked my Dr to put me back on the combination pill because I had NO side effects with that one. I have been cramping nonstop and it's more intense than they normally are.
The reason I've listed is contraception, but in reality, I was prescribed this drug to help with ovarian cysts. And wow, is it a failure. My OB/GYN suggested I try it because it wouldn't give me migraines and mood swings like my previous medications. And while this part is true, it has done absolutely nothing to help with the cysts. We even increased the dosage, and still nothing. Apparently it's suppressing my ovaries enough to prevent the egg from being released, but not enough to prevent the egg from trying (key word) to pop out. As a result of this, I've had very painful complex cysts. And now I'm considering getting off of birth control all together. This medication has certainly not worked, and I'm frankly tired of wasting my time on this drug.
Been on this drud for over a month. Experience heavy bleeding due to uterine fibroids. Other than cramping & some weight gain I haven't had any other side effects. Had 1 period so far. It was a little lighter but too early to tell if it will work.
ABSOLUTELY MISERABLE. This drug deserves 0 stars. I understand it works differently for everyone but wow I hate it. I've been on it for about almost 8 months now. I was trying to give it a shot but I think I'm going to stop taking it. Ever since the first time I took it, my periods have been extremely irregular. I have 2 absolutely unmanageable periods every month... and my periods have never been bad at all. Now I have excruciatingly painful cramps for weeks at a time and my periods are all out of whack. I've read other reviews that say to let your body get used to it.. and I tried but it's definitely not for me. I'm tired all the time and just so groggy. Of course it works as a birth control when you're bleeding 50% of the month.
I absolutely hate this birth control. It's the only one I can take because I can't have anything with estrogen. However it's not worth it. I am so exhausted all of the time. I'm falling asleep driving, can't stay awake in class. All of my motivation is gone. I have trouble focusing on my school work. I pretty much feel like I have depression, I don't feel like doing anything. No sex drive at all. My hair is falling out by the hand full!!! I lose handfuls of hair multiple times a day. It's so dry and nasty but my scalp is oily. My acne is horrendous. I've never seen it so bad. I would not recommend this pill to anyone.
I started taking myran .35 mg right after my 6 week check up from having my son, so.its been about a year ice been taking it now. All was good at first. I now have very irregular periods. When i have them they last for a week but i have them like twice a month. To top that off my weightgain has been INSANE. I reas into studies on it and i know its not "directly linked" but that is incredibly false. I eat very healtjy and worlout typically 4 days out of the week hourly so no that is not the case. I know im not the only one. This stuff is horrible!!! I mean it did the job for not getting me pregnant but then again of course whos gonna get pregnant when your bleeding and spotting throughout the month
I've been taking 35mg of Norithendrone for 7 months and it's been an absolute hell. I'm extremely sensitive to hormones as Mirena (IUD) and the Combination pills gave me the same side effects as this birth control. HORRIBLE acne, never had so much before, and oily/dry skin. My facial hair has increased significantly; I have to check my upper lip and chin at least once every morning before I head off to school. My boobs are sore two weeks before my period, and my mood swings are horrendous. This medication made my depression so bad I had to go on Lexapro 10mg. I also experienced hair loss, and I have a bald spot near my hair line. I've been in a relationship for almost 2 years and this birth control almost ruined it. By god, if you cannot handle hormonal birth control well and have depression/anxiety, please stay away for your own good. Never. Again.
I started taking .35 Norethindrone tablets because of estrogen Dominance. I was off bc for a long time due to migraines. Husband and I thought we were stuck with condoms forever because I couldn't be on estrogen pills. Then I started to lose my mind, my hair, etc and went to the obgyn. She explained all my symptoms were due to the hormone imbalance. Enter Lyza, another pill, and now Mylan. They are all Norethindrone, just different manufacturers. I love this pill. I'm safely protected but without all the mood swings I experienced on an estrogen pill. My hair stopped falling out. I wasn't yelling all the time. I still get my period every month but it's a bit lighter and it's on my body's clock, not the pills. My ob just said to make sure I track my period so I know when it should be happening (I use an app) and if I'm a little late to take a test. I could set my watch by it. I seriously don't know what I would do without this pill. If you can't take estrogen pills, I highly recommend it.
Northindrone .35mg I have been on the pill for a week and a half and already have to stop. I had our son in October and hadn't experienced anything more than baby blues until starting this medicine. If i continue taking it I swear i will be divorced...uncontrollable lows, for someone who was happy every day to be alive to be ready to sign divorce papers in a week is nuts. Also headaches, bad sweating, heartburn, nipple tenderness, spotting for a week and I'm not lactating anymore. I have to exercise and eat regularly in order to lactate- nothing like that has changed in my routine apart from starting the pill.
I'm on my third month on the Heather tablet and have had the following side effects: oily scalp, hair falling off (like crazy), oily skin, frequent spotting and no period. I haven't gained any weight but feel tired all the time. This pill is definitely not for me and wouldn't recommend it either!
I started taking norethindrum in August 2017, it's now December 2017 and after a few months my pain went from an unbearable 10/10 everyday to a livable 5.5/10 everyday on a dosage of 10mg/day (I take my pills at 10 pm) it has stopped the bleeding (was on 5mg/day until November 8th, then started 10 mg) almost completely. I've only spotted twice since then and cramping still exists and is still painful, but not 10/10 painful. The one side effects that I've noticed THEE MOST is the excessive sweating. I sweat SO much at night, I have to keep a towel in my bed to wipe the sweat off my body in the middle of the night (my heat is not on, I only sleep with one blanket because I'll get too hot) I have not noticed any weight gain, or hardly any mood swings. This pill (and doing physical therapy) changed my life for the better, I can go out with my friends again and not cancel because I'm in too much pain to leave the house, normal sex life, just not being constantly in pain anymore is amazing and I would recommend to anyone who has the same symptoms as I did to take this pill. I think more people should know about it.
Third Time's a Charm. After a month of extremely heavy bleeding, I was prescribed a combo BC pill (Eskyce). Couldn't tolerate it due to nausea and migraines, and the bleeding continued. Then, we tried Provera, but to no avail. Bleeding worsened and I ended up in the ER with severe anemia that warranted a transfusion. The hospital GYN sent me home with 5mg Norethindrone tablets. Prescribed 4 a day till bleeding stopped, then 2 a day for a month. I'm only on day 8 but the bleeding completely stopped in 48 hours. Praise the Lord!! I do think the high dosage those first couple of days gave me headaches, but I went down to just one pill a day after the bleeding stopped and no headaches since. I do experience occasional chest discomfort, and an out of breath feeling - BUT, those are also symptoms of anemia. No other side effects so far. I would definitely recommend this drug for immediate cessation of potentially dangerous abnormal bleeding.
I suffered from heavy uterine bleeding for 7 years, i dis everything from birth control pills, hormone tests , cupping and everything you could think of untill one time i went to the ER because i passed out because of my heavy bleeding “ for almost 25 days” They prescribed 7 pills of norethidrone, and it was more like magic than i pill, now i bleed for 3-5 days, even though it hurts waaaaaay more now, but i get to live my life normally
I am a 21 year old college student and struggled to find a birth control that would work for me because I am unable to take estrogen due to my family history of blood clots. I was very hesitant about this pill due to the bad reviews but I know everyone is different so I gave it a shot. I have been taking this pill for three months and I couldn't be more happy with it! I have not had any side effects at all! I started taking the pill on the first day of my period and it lasted the normal 4-5 days, and have not had a period since! no weight gain or acne! I would recommend this birth control, as long as you find a convent time of day to take the pill, set an alarm, and its very easy.
My OB gave me this after I gave birth to my daughter since I was breastfeeding. Due to my daughters milk protein allergy I had to stop breastfeeding but continued to take this for about 6 months before I switched to the combo pill. Pros: my period remained regular and had gotten lighter and less painful. Didnt get pregnant. I also liked the idea of a low dose pill with no estrogen. Cons: HORRIBLE depression and anxiety. It got so bad my OB put me on Lexapro. Went from having clear skin to constantly breaking out all over my chin and nose. A week before my period would start I would get flu like symptoms with body aches,especially in my back, and chills. In addition, you have to take this at the EXACT same time every day. There were a few times that I took it a couple hours late and I would start spotting and then we would have to use a backup method. Everybody is different and I think this is a great option for nursing mothers but I wouldnt recommend this pill to anybody. I just started taking Necon 1/50 and am already starting to feel better.
At first I loved this pill. It's the only one I could tolerate at all (since I have migraines). I've been taking it for a solid YEAR too! But I just went to the doctor today and could not BELIEVE that I gained 20 pounds!! 20!!! I've always been a naturally thin person too, so imagine what this might do to a person who is not as lucky!! Granted, I only look like I've gained 5-10 pounds tops, but imagine my HORROR to learn this!! Now my doctor said a lot of it is water weight (since this pill holds on to water weight like you would not believe!!) but this was the final straw. I honestly don't think I can keep on this pill. I initially got on it last October for my bad PMS and heavy bleeding (plus birth control). But now it's like this pill only EXTENDS my PMS so I feel like a bloated, achy whale for half the month!!! The only thing it really is good for is that it DOES stop heavy bleeding. Now I only have a regular period for 2-3 days tops (as opposed to 5-7 days). The rest is spotting (and I only had spotting outside of my regular period ONCE in the first month of taking it). I've also had unprotected sex (without a back-up method) a few times over the course of the year and am not
So, I've been taking this bc since march and it worked fine in the first four months. But since August I've been spotting regularly and I missed one pill for the first time ever a week ago and since then I'm bleeding nonstop and having the worst cramps I've ever had. I don't know what to do, honeslty.
So I've been taking this birth control religiously for a year. I had way too much breakthrough bleeding. And here is the kicker:without missing a single pill in a year-I just tested positive on a pregnancy test. I'm furious right now. This BC is crap
Intense lower pelvic pain, back pain, migraines, increased depression, intense sex drive, nausea after only 5 days!
I was put on norethindrone after suffering from severe PCOS (cysts on your ovaries) and getting newly diagnosed with endometriosis. I was having extremely painful and irregular periods on my regular progesterone only birth control so they bumped me up to 5 mg. It was amazing at first. I bled for the first week, then never got a period again since taking it. No cramping or what not. However sex is extremely painful, my acne got worse and I gained a lot of weight. It worked for my overall health considering my limited options but it truly depends on the person
I started taking this 6 weeks ago and I decided today to stop taking it. My first period was 2days longer than normal and with heavier bleeding. It did seem to help my cramps alittle bit it. I have moments of feeling anxiety that I contribute to taking this, but what I really don't like is I just got over my period 2 weeks ago and Iam now bleeding again NO THANKS!! That's a deal beaker for me. Maybe I should give it more time to see if that would change? But I don't want to. What this pill worked great for is when your currently NOT taking any birth control pills and you use it to just delay a period for a vacation, Ive used it for that and it worked great! Just google using Northindrone to delay a period and when your back from your trip then stop taking it. I just didn't like it for long term birth control.
I started this medication three weeks ago by my doctor in every sense I've taken it I had very bad sides effect like blood clots.painful pelvic pressure soreness.in the pelvic area.also my cycle lasted for 17 days now I can't seems to get relief.so I think this medication should be reviewed again.thank you
I am a 52 year old peri-menopausal woman and was having abnormal, heavy bleeding then spotting in between periods. I got into a highly recommended gyno and she told me through extensive testing that I had uterine hyperplasia along with fibroids. I was immediately put on the 5 mg of Norethindrone Acetate pill. This was April of 2016. I lost 35 pounds and stopped having periods and felt great. UNTIL NOW. My stomach hurts like it never did, I was diagnosed with a bladder prolapse which I think was caused by this pill, my boobs are getting bigger which I do not need, I have breakthrough bleeding about once a month and anxiety through the roof. When I asked the doctor if I could go off this pill she said "it is keeping you from having uterine cancer isn't it?" Well when I visited my urogynochologist for my prolapse she looked at my file and said my uterine was the simple kind where there is no risk. Ok so now what? I am almost afraid to stop it because I do not miss having periods. I would only recommend this as a last resort for sure.
This is the best birth control in the world I'm telling you straight up. I didn't have any side effects and this actually works hella good. I don't take it at the same time every night and it STILL pulls thru doing everything it's supposed to do. If you're looking for a good birth control with zero side effects this is definitely for you.
I've been taking this for three months as a form of birth control due to migraines preventing me from taking any other pill. It's been three months and I've had 6 periods. One every other week just like clockwork on every other Tuesday. I take the pill at the EXACT same time every single night. I've only been late once and it was only 4 minutes past the normal time and the next day I bled... again. The periods last 7 days and it's been as equally inconvenient as it is frustrating. My PMS symptoms are ten times worse than they ever were. The only kind of decent thing is that it has helped my normally excruciating cramps, but the bleeding isn't worth it. I'm going to continue taking it for the next month at my doctors request, but hope to switch soon.
I have been taking norethindrone 4 months no. No period since. I dnt feel anty dif now. Dr switch 2 taking at night bc in the morning made me super nauseous. No cramps my libido was gone for like a month. Now its perf!
I have been taking norethindrone for 2 weeks now after the pharmacy refused to cover minastrin 24 fe since this is a generic that is cheaper. I feel horrible I am moody I have had a headache everyday since taking this, I didn't connect the dots until my bf brought up that I started this new pill. I am calling my doctor today to ask about switching back to my normal birth control, I would never recommend this to anyone. I truly hope they discontinue this brand.
I prescribed Norethindrone because I used to get migraines from the combination pills containing estrogen. The good news is, my migraines have subsided, but it came at a cost. I no longer have a period on the norethindrone, which is okay for some women, but I prefer to have a monthly period. My boobs shrunk in size, and I have been getting cystic acne breakouts that I have never had before in my life. I had no weight gain or mood changes on this medication. My doctor switched me to Lo Loestrin Fe in hopes that my period will come back and my skin will improve. We'll see how this works.
It's effective since I'm not pregnant, but I've experienced 7 of the nine main side effects and 3 week periods are miserable, when you follow with a yeast infection, bloating, and sore boobs. I'll take the risk and go back to ortho.
I have mixed feelings about this birth control, mostly because I've only taken it for two months. I've had irregular menstrual bleeding for a long time, but my bleeding became extremely irregular in September of 2014, when I had my period for 2.5 months straight (that was fun). I started taking Orsythia for about a year, and even though my period became regular, I had horrible headaches that were so painful. Later, my pharmacy switched me to Sronyx, which ended up treating me much better in symptoms (although I had much more nausea). After about a little over another year, I started experiencing intense pain and nausea/vomiting, and worse started bleeding irregularly again. I would bleed for 2-3 weeks, then after a week of no period, would bleed again for the same amount. After consulting my doctor, I was put on Ortho Tri-Cyclen and gained a ridiculous amount of weight with no change in diet, and got HUGE patches of stretch marks all over my body when I've never had stretch marks before. I took this birth control for about a month and a half before an OB/GYN told me it was doing me more harm than good. I was switched to Norethindrone, and I have been on Norethindrone for two months
I am only 20 years old but I have tried various dosages and types of estrogen in the combination pill but they have all shot my cholesterol up, my mood takes a huge hit and I even get painful muscular cramps in my limbs all the time. Estrogen rose my cortisol levels no matter what I tried. I have started this pill and it has been great in all those respects. I may experience very mild uterine cramping off my period and I'm seeing a few small breakouts but nothing I can't live with. I was about ready to give up on birth control but this saved the day. It is only slightly less effective than the combination pill, the info packet says if you take it on time every day there is a .5 percent chance of possible pregnancy whereas the combination pill is only .1 percent chance.
I guess everyone gets different effects because no two bodies are alike but I am satisfied with this medication because my periods are no longer heavy and I don't have to worry about my cyst anymore. I don't have any negative side effects and I must say I am just happy to have come across it. It's not for everyone but it does my body good.
I was given Norethidrone to stop my cycles until I'm able to get approved for a hysterectomy. For the most part it worked, but I've gain over 20lbs in 6months and my libido is shot. I opted for the med vs the depo shot. It counteracts with every weight loss regimen I have tried. I'm going to stop taking them to see if I lose the weight.
I was prescribed Norethindrone to treat abnormal bleeding after having to discontinue my other pill due to migraines. I was very hesitant to try Norethindrone given the many negative reviews. I have been on this medication for six months and am pleased with the results, finally. The first four months were miserable - bleeding 15 - 20 days per month, painful cramps (normal for me), and moodiness which was likely related to what felt like constant bleeding. After the fourth month, things suddenly improved. For the past two months, I have spotting for 1 or 2 days every 10 - 12 days. Norethindrone does not help my painful cramps like the other pill did but I also experience fewer migraines. Overall, I'm not completely thrilled with this medication but my perpetual bleeding is better controlled.
My pharmacy switched from Errin to norethindrone. I thought it was because my insurance had changed at the beginning of the year and that this was a generic for it. The first 2 weeks I took this, I felt nauseous all day, every day, within hours of taking it. I didn't make the connection at first, and actually took several pregnancy tests thinking that was what the issue was. I normally skip my periods and take the pill continuously, something I have done for over a decade, and with my physician's knowledge. Well, I didn't have the next pack ready to start so ended up having my period for a change. It was heavier and 2 days longer than it had ever been in my life. Once I started the next pack, after a few days off, the nausea started again. That's when I realized the connection. Also, during the 2 months I was on this pill I had a period 4 times. I don't even know how that's possible, but it happened. I remember getting my period 2 weeks after I had just had it, which was really confusing, and a bit concerning. I just spoke to my pharmacy, Giant Eagle, and asked why it had changed. They said it's because that's what they had ordered in at the time. How nice of them to switch
Was put on this for birth control since I didn't want an IUD. Pros: Increased libido Dropped 10 lbs Less headaches Cons: Severe mood swings Increased anxiety including daily panic attacks 2 periods a month. (Just in case once a month isn't enough) Extreme constant hunger Chronic fatigue Cramping lasting for several days while on period instead of just the usual one day I spoke with my doctor about my problems and concerns, and was basically dismissed. If these problems haven't stopped by the end of next month, will be switching pills and probably doctor as well.
I'm 44 and was prescribed this pill for heavy periods and uterine fibroids. I was really hoping for it to work and ease some pms symptoms. I've been sensitive to most bcps so this one I had high hopes for on the account of it being the lowest dose of hormones. Well, I had all the "rare" horrible side effects of it. I'm really disappointed because at first I had NO headache, no breast soreness or swelling and slept well but after a week I had extreme joint and muscles aches. I could barely walk. Then the chest pains and shortness of breath followed. The doctor called me today and advised to stop taking it immediately. I really wanted it to work but I'll just have to stick with the periods/pms.
I took Norethindrone tablets (.35 mg tab daily) for birth control every day at the exact same time for 8 months. I had an IUD (Mirena) placed last week and will be stopping the pills because of the side affects they gave me. I gained about 10lbs despite eating even healthier, no changes in exercise. I've had severe mood swings, increased anxiety and depression ever since starting this medication, and periods lasting at least a week that were only spaced two and a half to three weeks apart. The only plus was that it increased my libido substantially, but sometimes that wasn't such a good thing. I will never take this again and I'm eternally grateful to the specialist who was finally able to give me another IUD after two failed attempts by others!
I was pu on Norethindrone to stop bleeding that wouldn't cease for 3 months straight. It stopped bleeding but caused severe lower back pain, cramping and bloating. After 7 months of trying to deal with the pain and pressure I finally switched doctors. Within a month I had a hysterectomy. It has been 3 weeks since the surgery and I no longer have to take Norethindrone. I am so happy. No pain, no pressure or cramping and bloating is going down everyday. My energy level has tripled and I feel great.
I had started taking it for birth control, its excellant in that regards. Although I had to deal with bleeding inbetween my periods, crazy weight gain, moody behavior, too much pelvic pain, after almost a year I quit.
I am on day 2 of this medicine. So far so good. I did not sleep as soundly as normal last night but I took the medicine with dinner. Today I took it with lunch to see if it helps with my sleeping. If so I will stick to lunch time each day. I am having rumbling in my stomach about an hour after I take it but no pain. I will keep you posted.
My doctor recommended Nothindrone; Because I started bleeding heavy after two yrs that my period has stopped, went to the ER. Ultrasound was not able to tell anything due to the heavy bleeding. I was put on Nothindrone on leaving the ER, and had a Biopsy in the next two days. I want to report that, before this heavy bleeding incident; I have been experiencing low libido. After a week taking Nothindrone, I am experiencing something that just happened to me when I was a teenager. .. I try to psychologically work on the matter, because my husband and I sleep in separate beds due to his long hrs of work. I know he will be so happy but I don't want to let him know, because I don't know yet what will be the situation after my next visit to my Gynecologist . I rather wait and see what she has to say. Thanks :)
I was given the straight medication to stop my heavy bleeding. Days upon days I took it, to no avail. Frustrated I stopped taking it. Then I stopped bleeding within 2 days. One a separate visit, the doc convinced me I need birth control to regulate my cycles and bleeding. I was given Lo Loestrin Fe, which-surprise, contains Norethindrone. I started my period & started the pill pack. TWO WEEKS I took the pills. And for TWO weeks I bled. Bad. Frustrated AGAIN, I stopped the pills. And I stopped bleeding within 2 days.
I started this medication to treat heavy periods. Right around the time I started it I also started to experience pain in my throat, right around my thyroid. Not thinking of any connection between the two occurrence I called my endocrinologist as I've had thyroid nodules in the past. He ordered thyroid blood work and when that came back normal he said I was fine (without even seeing me!) I waited a few more weeks hoping whatever it was would just clear up but it only got worse. I then made an appt with an ear nose and throat dr, who in turn sent me to a different endocrinologist. He also said it wasn't anything to do with my thyroid and he didn't know what was causing it. I had started to wonder if it was hormonal and somehow tied to the norethindrone at this point but was told there's no connection between your thyroid and hormones....WHAT!?!? After 6 weeks the pain got so bad it would travel from my thyroid up into my jaw and I was being awakened every night with the worst headache. All of this on top of gaining 10lbs. I called my gynecologist but she didn't think it was the medication but I said I didn't care I was stopping it. Within one week the headaches stopped, within 2 w

This medicine did not work for me, and honestly after reading all the reviews on other websites, it should be taken off the market. I had breakthrough bleeding the entire time. I still received a cycle. I tried being patient, but this pill started affecting my moods so bad that I felt crazy. I'd have fits of anger, moodiness, and sleepless nights. It wasn't worth it. I stopped the pill. I hope my cycle goes back to normal, if not, I'll have to try something else.
This pill has been an effective contraceptive for me and has helped control my heavy periods. However, Upon taking this pill I have gained 25 pounds and gone up a cup size. I also have occasional irregular periods that last sometimes over 2 weeks
horrible medication ,ended me to the hospital severe lower back pain i never ever had it all my life,my doctor said do not stop it ,but sorry i stop it on the day 7 ,i am back to my normal life in 24 hours
Bad experience, I take this to block my cycle due to strong headache during my cycle and I was use to use another pils that is not available here in USA . But with the Norethindrone I have all the bad effects, blooding or small cycle each week, water retention, depression
I took this medication 2 years ago after my surgery for removal of endometriosis and non stop bleeding and it worked just fine with no side effects. After having a baby my non stop bleeding started to occur again so the doctor put me back on this medication and suggested I get Mirena IUD to help with the Endometriosis and Bleeding and now I have constant headaches, I feel dizzy at times, lack of energy, im still bleeding daily and experiencing worse cramps.
I have been on norethindrone for nearly 4 years. No side effects, no periods, no problems.
I was put on this birth control bbecause I decided to breastfeed...4 months after having my son... I'm pregnant. I took the pill every day at the same time. When I went to my OB she tells me it was the worst one to be taking..... I'm happy I'm having another baby... Just unexpected
Never take this. The side effects are horrible. My pharmacy gave me this because they ran out of what I normally take and love generess Fe. I took this for 3 months and had horrible problems and am switching back.
My doctor put me on 5mg of Norethindrone. Two pills three times a day for three days, two pills two times a day for three days, and one pill twice a day for 15 days. I had a DNC done and blead for two months after my procedure birth control didn't work, bed rest didn't work. This medication is the one thing that has stopped the bleeding. But the side effects I can't handle. I'm having throbbing pains in the backs of my eyes the headaches are unbearable. This is day four of being on the medication.
I have been on .35 mg Norethindrone for 17 years with zero problems. My periods are extremely light and short.
I took 5 milligram norethindrone back in 2011 and it didn't work then always bleeding and always having cramps even when I wasn't bleeding I have had two laparoscopy for endometriosis and my new doctor told me that norethindrone would be able to cure the endometriosis even though I have always been told there is no cure for endometriosis I told him I had been on it before and that it didn't work and it's the same dosage but he insisted that I try it again I have had migraines almost everyday I am bloated almost everyday I feel like I'm going to have my menstrual cycle everyday In terms of cramps and discomfort including extremely sore nipples back aches vaginal irritation. when I first started the pill I bled every day for a month I didn't have bleeding for maybe 3 to 4 weeks and now I have been bleeding every day this month so far. they gave me add back estradiol to take with it and that didn't work either. Then doctor also told me to double up on the norethindrone to take 10 milligrams and that did nothing. it's as if I am taking Placebo pills except that I have had headaches everyday and all the other symptoms of menstrual cycle that I already had except now it is more often. I
Not good! This drug did not work for me at all ! In fact, it made me bleed even more heavier. I have uterine fibroids, and was hopeful that Norethindrone would control the bleeding. It did not, instead, it made it much worse and gave me the most horrendous cramps and prolonged bleeding ever! I do not recommend this drug and feel it should be discontinued. You were warned!
I have tried numerous forms of birth control in my lifetime. I was on a double hormone pill that made me psycho. it made my hair line itch extremely bad to the point where my hair was breaking and falling out. I decided to switch to a single hormone pill and they prescribed me with norethindrone .35 mg. it was probably the worst pill possible to put me on. since I started, 3 months ago, I have bled every other week on the dot. at first I thought it was my body getting used to it but now im convinced its just not the pill for me. I take it at the same exact time daily. I will be switching at the end of this pack.
I have been taking this pill for 3 months. I started taking the pill after giving birth to my daughter 4 months ago due to breast feeding. I'm not even sure where to start with the side effects this pill had on me. It was an awful experience and will be starting a new pill today. I had horrible mood swings which have led to the discussion of divorce between my husband and I. I get irate at the drop of a pin, everyone in our house is afraid to say a word to me in case it may set me off. I have never been an angry person and wasn't until I started taking this pill. I cannot focus on particular tasks and have become very forgetful. My face is like an oil pit. It is so oily that I have 4-5 new pimples a day and they will not clear up. I do not have a normal sleeping pattern (and it's not due to the new baby, she sleeps but I can't). Once I finally do get to sleep, I am up after 3-4 hours and can't get back to sleep. I am tired and exhausted all the time. My anxiety and depression are through the roof. It's to the point I have to coach myself to get ready for work and to walk into work. I love my job but not with all this anxiety and depression that's hanging around. I have
Was on a combo pill 25 years ago pee kids which was terrible, horrid mood swings and triggered extreme migraines. Only good thing was contraception and periods were super light. Now at 51 I am in perimenopause and periods are normal one month and terribe bleeding and huge clots the next. Ended up in the ER and they prescribed 5mg pills for 14 days. I was not happy because of past experience, but now on day 8 and SO FAR so good. Reduced bleeding to spotting only requiring a panty liner (usually use biggest tampon and pad together), light bladder leakage has stopped, sleeping through the night, and for the first time in several years I actually have nice libido! No bloating, no headaches (once my iron came back up), no night sweats. Nothing to complain about at all. I have an ultrasound and biopsy this coming week to make sire no underlying issues, but wow, if I continue to handle this well, I'd like to stay on it. Oh, other side effect so far-I have RA (started when all of the period changes started) and NO joint swelling or pain at all! I was taking an Aleve and 400mg Advil daily for last four years just to cope, and haven't had one since I started. Haven'the felt this g
I was given this in January because I had painful periods and other symptoms. My Dr thought it was endometriosis. It ended up being complications from a mesh sling. My periods stopped and my migraines are almost gone. He started me out slowly. . 025 MG for a week and then. . 5mg for a week then 7.5 mgs for a week until I reached 10 mgs a week. I had no side effects. No weight gain. When I went back and he was going to have me discontinue this drug because we figured out it was not endometriosis and I told him it helped my migraines he decided to keep me on it. It is June now.
I am 25 and have had previous bad experiences on birth control pills in the past, such as nausea, abnormal bleeding, and weight gain. I wanted to give the pill another chance so my doctor prescribed me Norethindrone. This is my 4th month being on the pill and I cannot complain. I am not pregnant, have not gained any weight, my periods have all been on schedule and much lighter and shorter than they've ever been, and they do not cause me to get nauseous. I can say that after the first week of me taking the pill I did experience some light bleeding for a few days after my period had ended, but I haven't experienced it again. I am extremely satisfied with this pill and I would recommend.
I only started two days ago and it's already messing with my anxiety, which I can't have it do since I already have generalized anxiety disorder and this made it worse. It killed my appetite, I have a constant metallic taste in my mouth, and all the food I ate tasted the same. Bland, no flavor, couldn't pick up on salt. It also wore me out and made me too tired to do things. I know it was this norethindrone because it was the only change I had made recently. The cluster of weird symptoms coming on so strongly so quickly pointed to the new pill, not environmental factors. If you suffer from an anxiety or panic disorder, do not take this drug. If you suffer from depression or some sort of fatigue disorder, do not take this drug. If you tend to be prone to appetite and taste centered side effects, do not take this drug. I'm glad it works for many. It just didn't work for me and because I was prone to certain things, it makes me think I was going to be more prone to the side effects.
I was on this pill for 1 month and developed Alopcia, which is chronic hair loss. It is listed in the lesser common side affects as "loss of scalp hair" I have had several blood tests done over the last couple weeks to ensure nothing else was off internal and came back with a clean bill of health. Buyer beware, once hair loss is triggered it CAN NOT be stopped. I am now receiving injections into my head to slow down loss and just have to wait for regrowth. I WOULD NOT recommend this pill.
10 days to stop abnormal bleeding... Stop within 4 days. No side effects!
Reading through, I'm confused at why people have had bad results with this pill. I love it! I have been taking this pill for about 5 months now. The OBGYN prescribed it to me because I have migraines. At first I was VERY skeptical and reluctant to try it, but since starting my migraines have gone away almost completely! I never know when I'm going to get my period but when I do get it it's regular and very mild compared to my normal period. I have experienced no other side effects from this pill, and aside from it being only 96% effective against pregnancy I would recommend it to anyone taking birth control pills who has consistent migraine headaches.
I was previously on a birth control before this one for 6 months which worked great the only downside was that it gave me bad tunnel vision a and migraines that were very consistent, so I switched to this one and I regret it! I started it on the first day of my period which lasted around 5 days, when it ended I didnt notice any side affects. However not even a week later I began bleeding again I think its just spotting but a week later it's still going strong today and is very heavy, it's a lot heavier than my regular period so it has me a little concerned. Also my husband has noticed that my temperament is very quiet lately he says I'm just not myself, not to mention I keep crying uncontrollably over the dumbest things. My husband wants to stop these pills and just use condoms, and I think I'm okay with that because all of this ridiculous bleeding and crying attacks just isn't worth it.
I started taking Norethindrone for contraception 6 weeks after giving birth. I have had absolutely no side effects. Same energy level, sleep well but the only negative was a slightly decreased libido.
I have Endometriosis and I started taking this which I don't know why the Dr put me on this because we are trying to have a baby. Well my Dr lied to me because she said this drug could get me pregnant which is a complete lie!!! I've been on this drug for 5 days and after taking it for 3 days I ended up having horrible migraine headaches which I told the Dr I have horrible headaches anyways!!! I take medication for my migraine headaches so that's another reason I can't believe she prescribed me this medication!!! I don't recommend taking this medication if you get headaches, migraine headaches, or trying to have a baby!!!! The crazy thing is tonight I had a feeling I needed to look up this medication!!! I'm so glad I did!!!! I highly recommend if anyone gets a new medication not to just listen to your Dr but look up the medication online also because I can't believe how many lies I was told about this medication by my own Dr who is the one that told me she is going to help me with getting pregnant and then turns around to be all LIE!!!!
Has anyone had severe anger and agree sion during pms taking this med? I have pmdd and this med seemed to put me into almost a different person. Agression, anger and doing things that I would never do.
Started taking 3 months ago. Some spotting, but that's it. Doctor prescribed to start with 5mg and to increase by 2.5mg every two weeks until 15mg. The only complaint, very expensive with no insurance. It's worth the price in place of all the pain I had to endure. Currently no weight gain; can't lose any either!
Early hysterectomy, I am 42, needed hormone therapy so take this and another drug Estradiol. I had an early hysterectomy due to some conditions that cause me so much pain, anything it tolerable now that I don't have a period. I also suffer from severe depression, it did not effect my depression, which I was very worried about. I did notice that I had some strange dreams for a while but those could be caused by various reasons and not necessarily this drug.
I've developed a protruding vein on my left calve since taking this drug. I also feel tense, stressed, angry and very emotional while taking Norethindrone. I've never cried so much! I am having trouble sleeping and experiencing terrible nightmares. I am also experiencing bloating, weight gain and now have a crazy amount of cellulite. I eat healthfully, maintain a healthy weight (135 lbs at 5'8") and exercise 6 times per week. The cellulite is new.
I started taking Norethindrone 0.35 three weeks ago. My periods have always been irregular with a averaged cycle days of 38. I started the pill on a random day since I wasn't 100% sure when my next period would be. I started my period exactly 28 days after my last period which I thought was fantastic, thinking it would regulate me. Plus the period was lighter and only 3 days. or so I thought. a few days after I thought I had stopped my period I started bleeding again. Not enough to soak pads, but enough I had to wear a regular pad not a panty liner for about 5 more days. I finally stopped bleeding for about 4 days and now I am bleeding again. I have no idea what is my period and what is just my body getting used to being on the pill. I have to take this pill instead of the combo pill due to high blood pressure.
I have been taking this pill for two weeks now and have felt horrible every single day. Awful nausea, bloat, over active bladder, and stomach cramping. I felt worse after eating something rich like cheese. Going to the doctor today to switch. I have tried many pills over the years and have never had this problem with feeling so ill from taking birth control. Although it has been about nine months since I was on something. I did not experience any moodiness, but the other symptoms are not worth it.
I was prescribed Jolivette due to a large fibroid that was causing extremely heavy menstrual bleeding. Pills with estrogen give me migraines, so the doctor gave me this one. The first period after starting it was still very heavy and lasted eight days. The next one started 13 days later and lasted two and a half weeks including spotting, but was nowhere near as heavy. It's now been three weeks since that one ended and I've had no spotting at all. The doctor said by the middle of the third pack of pills, it should be clear whether it would make things better or worse. I think it is better because the first month or so I was very irritable, had sore breasts, and my face broke out. No more. I'll be very happy with it if my period doesn't return and the side effects continue to stay away.
49 yrs old. Had heavy abnormal bleeding for first time in my life. Usually had periods like clockwork. This time i had skipped a month then in Sept had period for over 20 days. Last 8 were extremely heavy. (bathroom every 1.5 hrs for 8 days, heavy) Went to doctor and prescribed this to stop the bleeding. It worked within 2 days. Skipped a day and it came back. Been on it for 10 days now, 5mg 1x day. I feel nauseous, wired, and anxious. It interacts with my Lamictal. Had ultrasound, see my gyno next week. May decide to have partial hysterectomy if it doesn't stay stopped as i don't want to deal with this or take this pill the rest of my life.
I had abnormal uterine bleeding and was passing many large clots for 2 weeks. I am only 43, so doctor thought it could be signs of upcoming menopause. Took this for 2 months...no bleeding but I am miserable!!! I have gained 16 pounds and feel bloated all of the time. Would recommend for short term use, but not as long as I have been on it. Will be going back to the doctor this week to find an alternative or find out what the heck is actually causing my bleeding!
In menopause for over 10 years, no periods. 2 month use caused resumption of monthly menstual periods.
My ob gyn prescribed this drug for post menopausal bleeding when regular progesterone was not effective. I chose a generic brand due to its high cost and took it once/day... do not remember the strength. After 2 months use I had gained 15 pounds and ended up in the hospital with a painful DVT (blood clot) behind my right knee. I then had to endure a week of Lovinox shots and am still after 3 months on Coumidan to thin the blood. I immediately ceased using the drug after the DVT diagnosis and did begin bleeding again, but only for 3 days. The bleeding has not reoccured, however I have been advised to never use any further hormone treatment.
I have taken 5 mg daily for the last two years and have not had a period! No more painful periods, migraines, mood swings, or bloating!
I had very heavy menstrual bleeding with clots, even had periods of hemoraging for over three weeks which led my cbc levels to drop to 6.7. After the third dose of this medicine (generic norethindrone) I stopped bleeding. I had to have a procedure to build up my blood. But Thank goodness this medicine stopped the bleeding for me. It can have some side effects I encountered a little nausea unless I took it with food. And some anxiety.
Been on for 3 months now. The non-stop bleeding finally stopped, which was the goal. But I am having skin breakouts, that I've never had before, even in adolescence. Vivid bad dreams are almost nightly, though I'm starting melatonin which seems to be helping. If I miss even one pill, I have bleeding, and have spotting sometimes anyway. I also seem to be more angry, tense; don't know if this is part of a side effect or just a stressful time in my life. Haven't gained weight but not able to lose any either. Is anyone else experiencing any of this on norethindrone?
I had Nexplanon inserted in April of 2017 and just had it removed a few weeks short of the 2 year anniversary due to constant periods. Insertion and removal were quick and painless so I really enjoyed that, and I did not get pregnant which is what I wanted in a birth control. However, I decided to have it removed after almost 2 years instead of 3 years due to the constant, irregular, unpredictable periods. I had half day periods which always threw me off, but the final straw was when I had 6 weeks of a period. Would not recommend.
I did not get the implant for contraception. I got it to stop debilitating, horrific 10-day long menstrual cycles that had made me severely anemic. The one "side effect" I had (if you can call it that) was that it also eliminated completely a decades-long problem of 10 days of suicidal PMDD that preceded every period. I went from being ruled by my menstrual cycle to not even being aware of it. I stayed on Implanon/Nexplanon for over 15 years, until I was 57 and my doctor insisted I get off of it, as it's not safe for someone my age. I will be forever grateful to the OB/GYN who recommended this to me. I would recommend it to anyone with these problems, though I can't say how it affects those who have less severe cycles.
I got the Implanon a nearly 2 weeks ago. It didn't hurt to get put in, did leave a fair lot of bruising however. So far ive found it great, however I occasionally feel overly emotional but you have to give your body a chance to adjust. Would recommend it though!
Ok so this was the biggest mistake of my life. Ive had it for 3 months, i have been bleeding for 2 and a half months. My mood is insane, my uterus hurts a LOT and i feel tired and nauseated. And no, im not pregnant. I am 21 years old and took it as contraception (which was extremely effective in that way, especially because Im constantly bleeding and dont even feel like having sex). I have been on cerazette(progestative pill) and it worked fine, so I thought this would be fine as well. Again, big mistake. Dont do it. I wish I had read reviews beforehand. 5 more days and finally ill get this off of me
I have had the implant for only a week and have really bad bruising nearly my whole upper arm. I got the bar on the last day of my period, fast forward a week and I've woken up with my period, I hope it doesn't last long as before I had the implant I had monthly periods lasting 4-5 days. I'll give it some more time and see i like it and of it suited to my body. But at this rate I might get it removed.
I had the bar for 8 months. I had dryness and redness every month along side thrush symptoms nearly every month exactly when I would normally get my period. I didn't have any bleeding until the 7th and 8th month where I had bleeding for 4 weeks straight and with the bleeding I had weight gain and crazy mood swings and really low/flat mood and so I got it taken out.
Im extremely unhappy with the implanon. It was inserted and now no doctors can remove it at the time of wanting to start a family. I have been completely let down by this contraception. It is not an easily reversible contraception like they claim. Do not use this contraception if you want kids in the future because there is a change that it will get lost in your arm and no doctors can remove it even with ultrasound support.
I had the Nexplanon and let me tell you why I got it removed... My moods swings were crazy! I felt mad, sad, angry, and it turned in to depression in just three months!
I've had the implants in for almost 2 years at this point, at first my periods we're normal and then I stopped getting them after the first 3 months. Never had any side effects. Recently I've been feeling some side effects and got my period this week for the first time in almost 2 years. Has this happened to anyone else?
I've tried all birth controls from the shots to the pills and I can say the implant was the best birth control I've ever took!! I never got bad side effects no acne I had irregular periods but I've always had irregular periods before the birth control and as far as mood swings I was already crazy before the birth control so I couldn't tell a difference lol.. But I've had this birth control twice in a 6 year period in both times I've had this I've never had any problems... everyone body is different just remember to pray before you take any medication because medicine is man made and any type of medicine can harm the body so just pray over everything you put in your body..??
I had my implanon inserted in September 2018 and have been quite unwell since. I was recommended it for hormonal control but the nasty side effects far outweigh its contraceptive benefits. I've lost 6 kgs which has now caused me to be underweight, I have absolutely no desire to eat, I experience headaches and nausea almost constantly and are very fatigued. My period hasn't stopped since getting the implanon, including cramps as well. I recommend doing ample research on other contraceptive methods before getting one inserted...
i had the implanon inserted in 2015 and i recently removed it because it was time to remove it. It has been a month nearly 2 since i have removed it, i haven't had my period whereas i do get period pains. I have done 3 pregnancy tests and they are all negative.
I had my implant the day i gave birth. August 18, 2018. Its been almost 4 months now and I am experiencing sone side effects. Like, head ache, mood swings & gaining weight. My last period was October and until now my period didnt return yet. Im a bit worried. Because i read some of the others reviews that they have a cyst. This is very convenient but i dont want to have it long time in my body.
PROCEED WITH CAUTION! I chose this method of birth control because I didn't want to deal with taking pills everyday. I only had it for 3 months but it was one of the worst 3 months of my life. Everything made me want to cry and I spotted the whole time. I've been on the pill now for many years and I 100% recommend pills even if it does mean you have to take it everyday.
I had 2 implanons over 5 years. Before changing over from the pill, I would have irregular periods and pain and after about 6 weeks of spotting when first inserted, I stopped getting my period and pain all together. At the 2.5 year mark my period started again and was constant for months until I had a new one put in. So overall my experience was not a bad one. HOWEVER, I have experienced extreme mood swings, anxiety, lack of sex drive over this time and never put it down to my implant. I have now had it removed for 2 months and I am back on the pill and I feel like the happiest I have ever been! I believe everyone's experience with implanon is different, but if you're experiencing the same side effects, I urge you to get it out! You won't regret it!
I've had an implanon in my left arm since I was 14 (mid 2015) and it's a great contraception, but it does not mix well with my body at all. I've had a single one that has been taken out after the first couple months of having it because of bad mood changes and then had two more put in which has been this way for almost 3 years now. Since I've had it, I've been diagnosed with bipolar depression and in this past year I have been seeing more and more negative things happening to my body which may be getting caused by the implant. I hope that when I take it out my body can go back to normal, just have to try and find another contraceptive now that will treat my body a little more nicely :)
Never get the nexplanon. NEVER get it. It's emotionally draining, I feel like I'm going slowly insane because of this thing. It made my anxiety 10 times worse and it made me so awfully stressed. My self esteem was nothing, I had 0 self esteem. I felt disgusting 100% of the time and I felt frustrated and well, disgusted all of the time. Did I mention I bled non stop for at least 5 months, then it stopped for like a week, then it was back. So basically a year and a few months on having it, this was my WORST experience with anything. Never get the implant.
I decided to get the implanon because my boyfriend at the time could not deal with condoms and i've been on different kinds of pills and did not like being on them. I have to say even if we broke up already, this implanon was the best thing to come out of the relationship. It is SO convenient, it gets implanted and you immediately stop getting your periods. I am also on other anti-psychotic medication so that might have caused my weight gain, but after a month of implanon there was no weight gain. ONLY DISCLAIMER: this is the one reason I did not give the implanon a full 5 starts across the board--the implantation process. I had horrible bruises for weeks after. the wound hurt SO, SO MUCH. the little implant is the size of a matchstick but the bruises were as big as a large hand. I also could not lie down on that side while sleeping for up to 1 month after. The area was extremely sensitive. but once those 3-4 weeks pass, there are no side effects. I would recommend this to everyone.
I have been taking drug contraceptives for about 5 years now. I was on depo prevera for about 2 years before getting the implanon. The doctor recommended i be on my first or second day on my pwriod just to make sure i wasnt pregnant. The insertion was quick, easy and painless. There was alot of bruising for about two weeks, but don't regret getting it inserted. My period stopped completely a day after and no babies! On my third year of having in I've had small cyst like acne and some weight gain. The weight gain was complwtly my fault because I didn't excersise.
I just had the implant inserted today November 19th, 2018 at 1pm and it is now same day 8:06pm. So far I've had negotiate things. When I came home I was fine until roughly 330pm. Numbing wore off and I started to feel a lot of pain. I went to use the restroom I looked inside the wrap and saw a lot of bruising already and for some reason it made me faint in my bathroom. That fainting could just be me from seeing the blood and bruising but it happened. But overall, it's very sore and still bleeding 7 hours later. So far I hate the healing process.
I was SO nervous before getting the implant because of all the negative reviews, but I love it. Having it inserted into my arm was easy and it healed so well! I've had it for about 3 months and I only had my period one time about a week after I got it inserted. My period only lasted like 2 days and it's been gone since! Don't let the bad reviews scare you off. My doctor said only 30% of women experience weight gain and other side effects. I have experienced none so take my word for it!
I'm reading a lot about acne being a main side effect. I got my implant almost 3 years ago and I remember my doctor warning about acne being one of the main side effects of I ever had to worry about one. I brushed that off and thought well I'll be okay I have really good skin routines I follow so that won't effect me. 6 months ago was when I first noticed it and I don't know if I should call it acne or lessions. They pop up on my legs, arms, and now face. They almost appear like open sores to begin with and they're impossible to get under control. 2 weeks of trying everything, 5 different doctors, antibiotics, 10 blood tests, they just disappear and I think I'm in the clear and they'll come again. Not on the implant site but all on my thigh, arms, cheeks, and chin. I don't know what else to do, but try to remove the implant and wait and see if they go away immediately. That's been my main issue. I also lost 10 lbs when I first got on the Nexplanon and was already 120.. I have had a period since the day I had it inserted. Feeling anxious and worried ??
I had the Nexplanon for about a year and a half now. At 1st i have to admit i loved it. No period, helped with my acne and no mood swings of any kind. After about a year i started some light spotting no big deal. As time went on i it worsened. I have now had my period for over a month and cramping has become painful. I will be getting this removed shortly and trying another for of hormonal birth control. If the Nexplanon worked like it has for the 1st year I would never consider removing it early but the constant heavy bleeding i can't tolerate.
I had it inserted July 2015 and removed July 2018. I experienced longer than normal periods. They ranged from 5-15 days. Usually at least 7 days. It was difficult to lose weight and my sex drive became almost non existant. I developed extreme dizziness and migraines. I didn't get pregnant but I would never get another one.
for me, its the perfect choice for birth control since I no longer have to remember taking pills everyday since I am very forgetful. I see it perfect since I do not have bad side effects, and I get unlimited sex, and without worrying that I will get pregnant. I bleed for every 3 months only and there are no changes in my mood. so see, for me, Its the PERFECT CHOICE.
I love my implanon i have it for almost a year and no problem with it.
This was the beginning of a long road through Hell for me, I recommend extreme caution. Try progesterone only pills first for several months and really give your body a chance to tell you if it will tolerate it. I did not, and I regret it constantly. It wasn't painful to have inserted or taken out, I think this depends on your doctor. I was pretty sick for a few days after insertion, but after that I had very few side effects for the next year or so except some weight gain and irregular periods. It did prevent pregnancy and I didn't have to remember to take a pill. But after about a year and a half to two years, I started having the excruciating episodes that I now know were ovarian cysts rupturing. They were the most painful things I've felt in my life and that's counting childbirth. The first two were the worst, they came on suddenly after sex and I actually passed out and woke up to vomit then I stayed conscious, but barely. After the acute pain for the first few hours there was dull but severe pain for days. The next few weren't so bad but they still sucked and this went on for the better part of a year. The first three were every month, then they started happening
I had this implanted in my arm for a year. I liked how easy it was to have inserted and I didn't have to remember to take a pill everyday. I really was hoping it would work for me. Unfortunately, I experienced almost all the symptoms. I had horrible headaches, nausea and fatigue. I lost 10 pounds and I was already skinny before. I became underweight from lack of appetite. I also experienced bloating. It was very uncomfortable and my stomach would be puffing out. I really tried to wait out the symptoms and hoped my body would adjust but it became too much. It really took a a physical and emotional toll on me.
I had the Implanon only in for a few months. I developed mood swings. The biggest reason why I had it removed because intercourse with my boyfriend was severely painful. I was dry and used lube but it didn't help. Also the intercourse itself was unbearable. His penis could not even go in. I have never experience that in my life. It made be fearful of intercourse. I had it removed and I our sex life went back to normal. After the removal of the implant I exerpienced ruptured overarian cyst, twice. I never had that happen in my life, only after it was removed.
I gained weight, I got acne, my mood swings were bad and then I got into the depressed stage within the first year. Now I'm doing better, the best part is no periods and no babies ????
I was on Implanon for just under a year. My period lasted on average about 21 days. I was moody, had body aches and for the first time in my life had the worst cyst pimples on my chin (very sore, had 5 at a time). I have been off it now about 2 weeks and am so grateful to have had it taken out. It was actually quite difficult for the doctor to remove it. It just wouldn't "pop" out. But i was told this is rare. I only went on it because I am unable to take the pill due to clots.
It was great when I first got it in, but over time it gradually got worse and worse. I actually lost over 20 pounds on it, I got the worst mood swings and the nastiest attitude, I had my period for about 2-3 weeks out of EACH month for over two years straight, horrible depression and thoughts, bad anxiety and acne all became horrible issues I dealt with as well as an eating disorder. 11/10 do not recommend
I'm so glad I can bring in a semi-positive review for my Nexplanon, and I have a friend that loves it - literally nothing changed with her body. The ease of this birth control is fantastic. My annoyance comes from the irregular bleeding. I started with constant spotting with need of a tampon since my underwear was getting slowly ruined. In 6 months of having it, two months contained a couple weeks of no bleeding (in which I thought I might be regulating), but since those months bleeding has come back in full. I also, in hindsight, got depressed right after getting the implant and ended up going to counseling for a few months which was extremely beneficial - so that was a plus! All in all, I'm keeping it and going on a pill over my wedding day so that I'm not bleeding through my wedding, there's a hope this will regulate the bleeding.
I wouldn't wish this on my worst enemy. I decided to switch over to implanon from a pill because of the easy maintenance, on top of having some spotting issues that no pill I tried could fix. Implanon at first only made me gain a bit of weight and develop dry skin to the point of getting acne, but...after a couple months, my normally very high libido plummeted to absolutely nothing, and sex was incredibly painful for me. I'm now off of it and my libido is still nonexistent to the point of starting to cause relationship problems. I'm having to undergo medical appointments because i've been off of it for several months now, and this device's side effects are ruining my life. So far nothing any doctor has tried or recommending is helping, and I'm terrified that my body has suffered permanent damage for this horrible contraceptive.
SEVERE ACNE, diarrhea, depression, antsy body, headache, weight gain, extreme tiredness. Worst thing I have ever put in my body, don't do it. Does its job but not worth the side effects.
You see a lot of bad reviews, many discuss how terrible it is. I haven't had a single problem with my weight (if anything I have lost some), mood swings, but I did have a loss of appetite for the first few weeks and my periods were very irregular but they are starting to get back to normal now (i've had it for about 2 months). Don't let the reviews scare you away, I looked after I got the implant and got extremely worried but I am very happy with it so far. The insertion was completely painless, after it was sore for about two weeks.
Had it 4 years. Had no problems with periods (had one every six months). I gained 40 pounds, with my normal exercise routine and healthy diet. Broke out heavily before each period. My normally contained anxiety and depression became debilitating. The last 6 months were awful. More periods, more breaking out, anxiety attacks, break downs.... throughout the 4 years I lost all energy, lost all sex drive. Went to get it removed a month ago. After an hour of digging in my arm they were unsuccessful at removing it. Had to get it sliced out. The only reason I gave it any good stars is because I didn't get pregnant. Otherwise, it was the worst BC I've ever been on. Glad to have it out and ready to feel better!
Insertion date 3/12/18 Removal date 5/22/2018 positive: my acne cleared up a lot and I had barely any periods. Just spotting of old blood. And it was 100% effective on not getting pregnant! Negative: weight gain, went up a whole pant size in one month! Loss of sex drive, anxiety sky rocketed getting to the point of no control. Mood swings. I've become depressed and cry at almost everything. Getting it removed tomorrow and I cannot wait to get my body back and feel like my normal happy self again!
Best birth control ever !
Insertion did not hurt the shot to numb ur arm stung lol was brushed and pain from insertion for about 2+weeks. Pros few to no periods. No babies. Had for 2 n half yrs out of the 3 it is good for finally had to get it out too many healrh issues due to it. Pros few to no periods. No babies. Easy dont have to rememner to take it. Good for 3 yrs.Cons weight gain. Fatigue. Depression. No sex drive at all. Towards end i had a lot of bloating and no appetite unsure if she to implant or another health issue but since getting it out I feel a lot better haven't had those symptoms so far again. My mood has improved as well. Getting it out wasn't painfully sting with shot and slight stinging while she took it out. But recovery time was less than getting it in. Less bruising and soreness.overall I would not recommend to others.
This was my second insertion. Removal was worth it! I have no periods and no side effects from this drug. Best kept birTh control secret I've tried them all!
This was a great form of birth control in the sense that it prevented pregnancy. I didn't have to worry about it once it was inserted and it was a long term form of birth control; however, it RUINED my skin. Soon after getting it inserted, I developed horrible acne on my chin, neck, and cheeks. I got it placed in July and removed in February. During that time, my skin never became clear. I saw a dermatologist who gave me two topical creams, I was put on an antibiotic, I got monthly facials and treatments, and switched my entire skin care routine. NOTHING helped. I finally got it removed and in less than a week, my skin has started to improve.
I've hardly had any negative side effects from the nexaplanon. No periods for a year, no mood swings out of the ordinary, I've always had acne but it hasn't worsened. However, I have lost a tremendous amount of weight. There really isn't any other plausible explanation other than the implant. Has anyone else experienced this? I've lost well over 21 lbs I'm at 124 lbs now. I feel a little insecure about it..
This is the second time that I use Implanon, and always the same side effects, bleeding 26 days per month, and very irritated all the time, in the beginning you can think it is not about Implanon, and just is because you are f***ng crazy, but I remember my life before Implanon, it wasn't like now. And this can help with contraception also because you don't want to have sex anymore, very effective. This plus the already mentioned side effects by the brand.
i've had this arm implant for about 3 1/2 months and it is very effective. I wanted to talk about, I see a lot of people saying that they've gained a lot of weight. But for me my experience has been different and I wanted to know if anybody has experience the same instead of gaining weight I'm losing weight I see a lot of people saying that they've gained a lot of weight. I just started to feel full Usually I over eat but now I don't feel the need to I just feel full even if I don't eat anything I feel full I can tell the difference by looking at my body and looking at my stomach I've been losing weight
This is my second time on Nexplanon, I love it no side effects for me. First one was on 2013 got it out on 2016 and decided to have a baby was really easy to get pregnant. Baby was born September 14 2017 Got my second Nexplanon in on November 3rd 2017 and so far so good.
Implanon has caused me erratic periods. I could have a 5 day period, be off it for 2-3 days and then have another 5 day heavy period. Even after 4 months, it is still erratic. I have gained a considerable amount of weight on this birth control. 20 lbs in 4 months. Very unusual for me. I will be getting this removed this week. while it is great in preventing pregnancy, the side effects are terrible. I would not recommend this to anyone.
I got it inserted in January and bleed a lot for the first 8 months with no cramps (I used to get really bad cramps before de implanon). Now i haven't seen my period in 5 months. For me it works (since I'm not pregnant) I think it just takes time to adjust to your body and people are impatience.
Worse birth control ever mood swings weight gain hormones completely off balance
Ladys stay away from this birth control method. It will ruin your life. I've only had the implant for 3 months now and I can't wait to get this thing removed. It caused me to gain a shit ton of weight, plus it broke me out like crazy. Also, my mood swings were horrible. I got irritated over anything. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone.
I had the Nexplanon for 3 and a half years. The first two and half were pretty good. I only got my period every three months for a few days (very light) but my breasts were always tender. 2 1/2 to 3 years I bled more but it would eventually stop. When I had my second Nexplanon inserted at 3 years I started to bleed non-stop (light but non-stop.) I talked with my doctor about this. Because I liked how it originally worked and have limited options I can use I was willing to get a third Nexplanon to see if it was just the second one being defective. I bled worse on the third one and did not have a single day of not bleeding. I ended up bleeding for six months straight when the third one was taken out. I was willing to do the trail and error because I originally loved this and really wanted it to work like it had in the beginning but that did not happen. I have a history of really long, heavy periods so this may not happen to someone who has not had issues with their periods.
Implanon was one of the worst decisions of my life. I would not recommend if you have had even the slightest issue with hormonal birth control in the past. A few months after getting it implanted I noticed that my mood had gone down and I began to have major mood swings. Having NEVER had depression before I was baffled. After talking with my doctor who told me it wasnt the problem, I tried to move on and deal with my depression. After a few more months (and more research) I was convinced that this deep hole I was in had to be at least somewhat caused by this thing in my arm. I had my device removed less than a year after putting it in (despite my doctor not believing me, which only made the entire situation worse). Within a few months my mood dramatically improved, my mood swings were especially noticeably decreasing. It took me almost a year after that to get back to the place I was before because of how depressed I was for that period of time my entire outlook on life changed, my daily habits had changed, everything about my life changed. Its not worth the prevent a pregnancy, there are other ways of prevention (copper iud is what I have now and it has been great for me)
Not only did it take hours of digging in my arm to get the damn thing out, it caused HORRIBLE side effects. CYSTIC ACNE and I've never had acne in my life...... anxiety was 10x worse, weight gain (40 lbs), mood swings... migraines. The thing is HORRIBLE. NEVER AGAIN. I wish I could share the picture of my arm from taking it out. The bruises are from elbow to shoulder.
I'm 27 and in my 4th implanon implant. I love it. I NEVER can remember to take meds so this is ideal. No weird side effects other than back pain. No weight gain. No acne. No cramps. No mood swings. This contraceptive is awesome. And injection isnt painful. Nor is taking it out. (Once i took one out myself w no pain meds) and the back pain is better than labor im betting. :)
I strongly urge anyone to run FAST from this product. It was the one thing I regret doing in my entire life. Even though this is easily injected, getting it removed was excruciating, I had a large bruise for weeks & the doctor had to dig into my arm to get this thing out. I was 19 years old when received and it took my body about 3 months so start showing symptoms which included: -a constant period for 9 months, but no cramping -extreme irritability -uncontrollable mood swings/emotions -weight gain of 40 lbs -no sex drive -ear infections -bloating All of these symptoms were not worth being on birth control. I got it removed early, exactly one year later, and it took my body about one full year to get back to normal and regulated.
For starters I have a huge bulge that will not go away in my left arm where the birth control was inserted. I was an evil person with this birth control, I tried to commit suicide on this birth control and what was sad was I knew deep down "this wasnt me" like I didnt feel like myself while on it. I gained 60lbs on it and was on it for 2 years, I didnt have any periods but I had other painful complications while in this. It felt like someone was stabbing my arm at the spot of the birth control. Taking it out was worse than having it in. My muscle had formed around it and the doc couldn't get a good grip on it so after an hour she finally retrieved it and I was bruised for 2 weeks. I do not recommend this to anyone. Not even my worst enemy
I got the implant in Jan 1.2017 the first month was fine I didn't get a period. But in April my period was going on for months at a time I once had my period from April-August with no break in between. There was 1 week out of the whole time I had it where I didn't have any bleeding. I got it out Sep. 26.2017 and the next day I had a little bleeding but ever since no period ! It was the worst experience of my life.
I'm a 32 year old, and I've had two implants so far, the first one at 21 years old, the second one at 24(remains in my arm) I've decided not to take it cause I bruise easily and it does not affect or bother me in any way. I currently have a four year old mirena that would need to be replaced the following year. I'll continue to keep using mirena and the main reason it's because it has suppressed menstrual periods and has been 110% effective. I do not want any children, so I might get the 10 year old one next. I I used to have light periods with implanon, but there were always there. I love that I've been able to move on with my life without thinking about that. If I never have a period in my life, I'll die a happy woman. Other than the bruising when inserting or removing, I did not have any complications... as far as I'm aware. However, I was diagnosed with mental illness 6 years ago, BPD, ADHD, anxiety, depression and worths of all I've been bulimic for 6 years now. I remember that my first implanon was very expensive, but all of those items are paid out of pocket in Mexico(I'm from Mexico). Health care is not a thing there. I paid $100 dollars for the mirena imp
I've had it for about 6 months now ever since I got married and the first 3 months were okay, but now it's been terrible. I developed horrible and intense migraines that don't go away until they feel like going away. I constantly get sick, vomit, I get dizzy, and even my throat has swollen up over nothing. I've noticed hair loss for about three months now as well. It's very effective in not getting you pregnant, I can guarentee that but the side effects make it a big NO. I'm trying to get it removed as fast as I can because I can't take these symptoms anymore. Rather be pregnant than this. Only upside was that it made my periods 3-4 days long instead of 6-7 like they were before I got the implant. Please use another method if possible, you will be stuck with unwanted side effects and hate it.
If you have any sort of mental illness or health issues such as anemia or migraines, please avoid this! Good thing about this contraceptive is I didn't get pregnant. Inseration isn't very painful. You don't have to worry about taking the pill. I experienced almost every symptom associated with this contraception. I had struggled with depression and anxiety prior to insertion, but it made it so much worse. I became suicidal and so anxious that I could not eat. I was at a healthy weight and lost 30 pounds, becoming underweight. I developed amenia due to the constant bleeding. I never stopped bleeding once on this drug. My OBGYN said that my body was adjusting and after 6 months my period and side effects would settle down. They never did. I bled everyday for over 6 months. I also experienced extreme hairloss. Once my OBGYN removed it (which was an awful experience) I began to feel SO much better within 2 weeks. I was happier, less anxious, not nauseous, less migraines and I finally started to gain weight back, and the bleeding stopped. I know birth control is a very trial and error thing, and that many people love the Implanon! I just wouldn't even go through the struggle of tryi
I had this for 4 months. I did not like it from the beginning, but wanted to see if I would get used to the side effects and if my hormones would balance. They definitely did not. From about the second week I became very depressed, my sex drive plummeted (very unlike my normal self), I started getting joint pain in my hands and wrists, I creased acne and cysts on my inner thighs, and I would have episodes of dizziness and nausea. I had to leave work a couple times because the dizziness was so bad. I am not a "sick" person. I'm healthy and happy. This birth control changed me into someone I'm not. However, my best friend has the implant and loves it. It's all about you. If you want to try it, then do it. Just pay attention to changes in your body and be careful with the mood swings. I didn't realize how depressed I was until I had the implant removed and the hormones cycled out of my body.
I got the implan inserted 3 months months ago and since then I have been havin my period twice a month, the last for like 8 days and it's soo damn annoying. That's the only negative side-effect I'm experiencing and I've decided to get it out ASAP
The doctor inserted the implant. It got infected and I needed antibiotics. I literally used it for 3 months and gained a whooping 30 pounds. It caused acne and horrible migraines. I felt depressed and fatigued. After 2 months of it being inserted, I could not take it anymore and went to the doctor to have it removed. He was unable to find it and the whole procedure was very painful. I needed to have stitches and an xray costing 350. Then it got infected again and after the swelling went down I got another xray.. still could not find it!! I just got a CT scan done but here I am 5 months later and still have to endure migraines due to it being in my arm . Worse experience of my life!!!
I started using the Implanon in 2012. It was recommended by my doctor because I was very irregular and sometimes getting my period was so painful that i couldn't do anything but lay in bed. I am about to get my third one. I love it. I guess as some say I have been one of the lucky ones. I haven't had a period in almost 6yrs, other than a small amount of spotting when they took out the old one and put in a new one. but it only lasted a day and was very very light. I really haven't experienced any of the side effects that are possible. My weight stayed pretty much the same and didn't notice being any moodier then normal, but then again I suffer from depression and anxiety anyways. I love it and have recommended it to others.
DO NOT GET THIS IMPLANT. I just got this implant removed (after about a month of having it). I feel like I am going to finally have control of my life again. This implant seems extremely easy but it was the furthest thing for me. After getting it, I was doing well for about a week and then the worst side effects began to happen. Mentally I was extremely moody to the point where if something was slightly wrong I would burst into tears. After crying I would have an extremely bad headache or back ache. As far as not getting pregnant- I'm not pregnant because a man would be crazy to get near my emotional, psycho mood swings. This was the worst month and I am so happy to get it taken out. I have had depression for about two years now and finally had it under control to have this implant wreck my emotions. I am hoping that since it is out now I will go back to being happy and normal.
I got implanting 2 months ago and so far I've had no side effects except the odd time I get spotting. I also occasion feel down but I don't know if that's entirely from implanon as I often get bouts of depression. So far so good
I started this birth control three years ago. I graudually gained weight i went from 120 post pardum to 128lbs. When it was removed I was 141 lbs. This made my BMI "over weight" because im short. I also previously experienced acne before it was inserted but it became a nightmare cystic type acne during usage and i never realized why i had it or how bad it was until it was too late. Now im left with lots of fat and scarring. I completely regret it!
I am about to take out my Implanon in 2 weeks. In the 3 years that I have had it, it has been a roller coaster. 1st year: I did have REALLY bad depression while on this drug (My life struggles did not help). I lost a lot of weight due to the depression. But once I wasn't depressed anymore I started gaining a tone of weight. Before the drug I could eat whatever I wanted and never gain weight. When depressed I never ate. Once I started to eat again I put on weight FAST. I did not even eat that bad plus I went on daily 1-2 hour walks with my dogs! I ate pretty good. I only ate bad when going out to eat or on special days. In the first year I went from 122 to 175. Periods did only last about 0-4 days. I didn't really have mood swings. I was a really happy person but there were days where I was really mad at nothing or started crying over nothing. 2nd year: Periods were the same. I started going to the gym everyday and ate healthier, no change in weight (just the normal 5 pound bouncing up and down)I started waking up where my elbow hurt bad. It was hard to move it. It stop at the last few months of this year. At the end of the year my blood from my periods turned brown. Mood is kind
This was honestly the worse experience with birth control. It does its job and doesn't get you pregnant but everything else is horrible! For starters I am a diabetic so healing does not work so well for me. The hole the nexplanon first went into stayed open for a whole year to the point were I can see the actual nexplanon rod in my arm and sometimes this ugly pimple like bump from the rod trying to poke out. On this very day, the nexplanon rod is 1/5 out of the hole and I am going to get it removed tomorrow because this is redic. The side effects were also horrible, I would NOT stop spotting, I bled everyday and it is just gross. I even had to take additional pill form birth control to stop my bleeding which worked but only for while. It even stopped my sex drive because I am so self conscious because I just keep bleeding. Literally had this in my arm for two years and I did not enjoy it at all. How am i suppose to have sex if i am bleeding all the time? So after 2 years of hell, Im getting it out of my arm tomorrow and I am so excited.
I was very hesitant to get the Nexplanon after reading so many negative reviews online. I went ahead and got the implant and I am SO glad I did. In the beginning I had the typical mood changes, temporary increased appetite and 2 weeks after the insertion I had a light period that lasted about a week. After that I haven't had any issues other than a couple days of light spotting and a few zits here and there, but lets be honest, you are always going to have some type of reaction to birth control so I'll take this!!! Plus, I dont have a period! YAY! The insertion was painless and fast. I love easy birth control and this gizmo is perfect for someone like me. :)
I can't really say how 'effective' nexplanon is in terms of birth control because to be honest, I didn't have sex the entire time I had it in. Let me start from the beginning. I am 34, had been on multiple types of estrogen based birth controls since I was 16 for extreme periods and cysts on my ovaries which worked wonderfully. I have a history of cystic acne from about the age of 12-23, but the last 10 years my skin has been rather perfect (although I am pretty obsessive about it given my horrible skin previously). I had been on a ton of pharmaceuticals for my acne and nothing really worked- it was pretty clear it was all hormonal related. I was put a beyaz most recently (prior to the nexplanon) and I liked it. However, early 2016 I had a few GI bleeds which were determined to be related to estrogen (ischemic colitis) and therefore I can never be on estrogen ever again. My GI MD conferenced with my GYN and determined that the only birth control that I could be on that could keep my ovaries asleep to avoid cysts was the nexplanon implant. I got it inserted in January 2017- I had it removed yesterday 4/17/2017. It was absolutely awful. Almost immediately my skin broke out in cyst
I started using implanon in 2013 per my doctors suggestion. I only had it in for about 3 months because the side effects were too horrible for me to deal with. First, I gained about 25 pounds in the 3 months I had it. Granted weight gain can be cause by many factors, that was just an extraordinary amount of weight to gain in such a short period without a change in diet/exercise. second, my acne got so much worse. i had been on the pill for four years before and it had cleared up my acne. I am still trying to get rid of the acne marks on my back from my implanon time. As if weight gain an acne weren't enough I was lucky enough to have hairless too! I remember showering and pulling out globs of my hair. Enough of the side effects this had on my appearance. I also started getting bacterial vaginosis, i think i had it four times in three months. I had never previously had any problems in that area, not even a yeast infection. After using implanon and getting vaginosis I also developed Vaginismus, making a sex life nearly impossible for me. Long story short. stay away from this. I was only on this for three months and have been dealing with the side effects for the last four years.
I wish I never got the nexplanon implant. As far as effectiveness goes, it works. I haven't gotten pregnant. But every other aspect of my life has suffered. My periods are much heavier, and much longer. I sometimes go for 3-4 weeks at a time with a week or 2 in between. They're unpredictable. I have lost weight uncomfortably. I dropped from 145 to 110 with no change in diet or exercise. I am suffering from depression and anxiety, which I have never felt before. My skin has suffered horribly. No skincare product I've tried has been able to remedy my acne. I have frequent headaches that carry on for hours. I've delta with numerous vaginal infections, which tend to pop up unprovoked. Save yourself the trouble and go with something else.
I got the implant in November (2016). It is a very very reliable birth control. It does have its downsides. But here is what I have to say. If you get the implant, you have to be patient with it. I get every women's body reacts differently. I bleed everyday for about 8-9 months. It was light, but still a hassle. I had mood swings and was definitely more emotional. It took my body about a year to get used to it. And I'm so happy I stuck around it with!! I only get 4-5 days light period maybe every other month. Barely any cramps and Migraines! Never gained weight, and lost my emotional mood swings. It takes your body time to get used to it. But If the implant is making your life hell, then I would take it out. But if it's not cause a lot of issues I would suggest you keep it and wait it out! Trust me!
I got married in October of 2013. I am not good when it comes to remembering to take pills, so I decided to do some research to find a birth control that would allow me to not worry about forgetting. I talked to my doctor about my concerns, those mainly being miscarriages ,depression, and weight gain. I was assured that this would not be the case, mind you I have never had any issues with depression or anxiety quiet the opposite actually(too happy) and never had any problems with weight. When I did my research on this birth control I did not find any major side effects, I concluded it may have been because it was fairly new on the market at that time. It wasn't until after removal because of crazy side affects, that I was able to find many people that had the same problems. I was absolutely miserable the first year of my marriage, I was extremely depressed with no thought in my mind of why I was becoming that way. I was melancholy and had no clue why. I gain 60lbs and had AWFUL mood swings. Not even kidding there would be times that just because of the way my husband ate his food I would get mad. I knew something else was wrong and so did my husband because I am not a person who
I started the Implant April of 2014 and it worked well or at least I thought it was working. I still got my period every month which I didn't mind except I began to have a very heavy flow... Ive gained weight and it made me very depressed, i had bad mood swings, I was always angry and anxious. I also broke out like never before..and I've always had clear skin. I DO NOT recommend this Birth Control. I took it out January of 2017..... never getting it again.
I got "Implanon" when I became sexually active and it did work great as a contraceptive. HOWEVER, it took almost 8 months to stop nealy continuous spotting, having a period, or light spotting on and off. I'd get maybe a week in between either heavy spotting or a period. These bleeding or spotting events could last up to almost three weeks at the worst. After about 9 months, I stopped having a period all together, which is what I wanted. This lasted for about 8 months, then I started having a period every two or three months. During the last 8 months of the three year effectiveness of the Implanon I started having frequent spotting and periods again. At least twice a month and for at least a week long. I should also mention that it changed my vaginal fluid (non blood), which was alarming at first because I couldn't tell if I had a yeast infection of if something was wrong. It also made me self-conscious which started affecting my sex life. I also had a lack of sexual interest towards the latter half of having the implanon. Also, I had a lot of UTI's, which I'd never had before I was on the implanon...may or may not have been because of it. I am not going to get the secon
I HATE Nexplanon. I I got it on January 19, 2017. Since getting it, I have terrible mood swings, I stay angry, I cry for no reason, I have been eating everything since my appetite is uncontrollable. I am getting it out Tuesday, I can't deal. I am miserable.
I dont doubt that this BC is amazing for some. Te fact that you do not have to do anything to maintain it is awesome. For me though it is not good. I had my implant put in on june 20 2016 and i have gained 20 lbs and am always angry, sad, or overwhelmed with life itself. I never even considered it could be my birth control until a friend brought it up and i did the math with the dates and realized it makes perfect sense. I can honestly say the only good thing about this BC is the fact that i did not get pregnant. Otherwise it was not the one for me.
I hate it!!!! I've had it for 2 years it's been a good prevention!!! But other then that I hate it. My face brakes out I bleed like a slaughtered pig non stop, my attitude is the worst, back pains, headaches, dizziness anything you could think of I've been they it!!! I wouldn't recommend this to my grandmother at all!!! I'd rather be with child then to keep going thru this!!!
I have been using Nexplanon for almost a year and aside from a few side effects such a sleepiness and breakouts in my face I love it. My gynecologist recommended Nexplanon for me due to me having such heavy periods and long lasting periods. I was going through a pad every hour non stop for over a week. It was fully covered by my insurance so I said what the hell got nothing to lose. The insertion process was easy but was quite sore afterwards for a few days. I tried so many other birth controls hated them all and they made me sick. I had a little bit a spotting from time to time for first few months and no I never have a period which I love. I barley notice it in my arm Highly recommend to woman having long heavy periods.
My experience with nexplanon has been nothing but awful. I think the only thing I like and am going to miss is not getting pregnant. In the two years I've had it implanted, I've had nothing but random fits of anger. I have been more apt to scream at someone for nothing at all. It has ruined all my relationships with family and my significant other. It has absolutely ruined the person I use to be. Also I have had more UTI's (of which I've never had before I had the implant.). Overall this is probably the worst form of birth control I've ever been on.
I love this method of birth control and it has been incredibly effective. I have tried other hormonal BC methods (progesteron only and estrogen) which have failed because I am terrible at taking pills on time. I experienced migraines, mood changes, light sensitivity and reduced sex drive. The insertion of the nexplanon device was painless and left no scar, but I did get a very bad sore throat after. I experienced near constant bleeding for 4 months while my body got used to the hormones, but after some time it leveled off and I have experienced lighter, but more frequent periods. It takes some patience for this to happen, so do not give up! I have experienced much greater mood stability and much less anxiety since being on this pill, likely due to the more constant regulation of hormones in my body. This may not be for everyone, but it seems like a great match for me!
DO NOT GET THE IMPLANON!!!!!!!! I have had it for 5 months and so far: • I have had countless random fits of uncontrollable rage. Which is completely out of my character. When I say rage I mean, I want to scream and punch through a wall anger.. • Periods that last 3 WEEKS. • Loss of sexual interest. • Random crying spells. • Gained 20 lbs, and I am a VERY active person with a healthy veggie filled diet. • SUICIDAL THOUGHTS. Wanting to drive off a bridge, "end my stress", walk out into traffic. You name it. I repeat, this birth control IS NOT WORTH IT.
I been on the nxt implanion for 3 years in March 2017 would I be able to sex until then or not ?
I have had it for 2 months now I'm breaking out like crazy I'm less interested in sex with my husband I have severe mood swings and I'm more depressed then I was when I started I've gained about 20lbs making my appointment first thing in the morning to have it removed never again
I moved from NurIstarate to Implanon. This is my last year on it, as it has to be removed in Oct 2017 (I'd have had it for 3 years then). My periods disappeared when i started on Nuristarate, and continued to be gone when i was on Implanon. But, after almost exactly 2 years on implanon, i have been experiencing spotting - with a few days of a very light period for the last couple of months. I guess it's my body prepping for the removal of the implanon? Anyone else expereinced this?
I got mine inserted back in may. Happily I have nother had my period since. On the down side though, I've gained nearly 60lbs and am the heaviest I've ever been. Which makes me more depressed. I never changed my diet or anything. It's also made my face and upper arms break out like crazy. I have honestly never had so much acne in my life, not even in high school. I recently started a new job and can not wait to have insurance again so that I can get it removed.
Love Nexplanon. Had no side effects but good ones. Feel as if cellulite has decreased in appearence, lost 10 lb while on it for 2.5 years, and after about a year my periods have regulated to 34 day cycles.
I have had implanon for 9 months and the first 7 I bled every day (only a little) and with regular periods. After the first 7 I was done with the bleeding and decided to get the NuvaRing as well as still using implanon to balance the hormones to make me stop bleeding. This worked! I have stopped bleeding finally on the ninth month but I'm worried because I can't tell if I have my period or not because it is very light and my periods previous to thing were "heavy-ish" I don't know if it's the birth control working and making my period light or if something is wrong? Has anyone else experienced this?!
This is my third time using it. Never had a problem with it. Did't have any side effect. I choose this one primary because I don't have to worry about taking it. The process isn't too bad for inserting it, they put anesthesia so you can't feel it being inserted. The wound heals in about 24 hrs.
It was fine for 3-4 months, then I developed horrible cystic acne (even as a teen, I didn't have breakouts like this). About 11 months in I started having severe cramping. Just made my removal appointment. I'll go back on the pill until my husband has his vasectomy.
I got mine in my arm around the middle of July sometime and only had a period in August , since then I have not had another. I spotted for about ten days and it went away. I have actually lost weight with this. I haven't experienced any depression , mood swings , anything else. It's al about your body and not letting everyone else reviews scare you away.
Bled now for four months straight. Tired. Fatigue. Moody.
This is the worst thing I've ever done to myself. Omg! I only had it for 2 months and let's me tell you all my side effects. I'm very healthy in my diet and hit the gym 5times a week. I can not breathe since I got this implant, I'm out of breath just walking around the house. I had perfect skin before this thing, and my skin gone through hell after. I just can't! Oh and there's more. I have absolutely no sex drive and I'm consider myself a real life rabbit. Oh the mood swing and depression is unreal. My breast is aching all the time like I'm bearing children. Stomach cramping is so bad. I really wish this implant would not have this many side effects, I'm not myself anymore. Not sure how painful it is to remove it. Inserting it was hell as well. Ugh I hate this implant.
I love it. I wouldn't go back to any other form of birth control.
Mood swings, periods that come and go for months straight and I have had bv several times throughout my 3 1/2 years on the b.c. . It is convenient and worry free but I hate that my periods are so long and irregular makes me feel uncomfortable.
I have implanon for 7 1/2 years (two different devices). In that time period I gained 35 lbs. I was always really skinny and no matter what I did I could never gain a lbs. Even after my babies I lost all my weight rapidly. I was concerned that the implant was causing my weight gain but my doctor assured me that I was getting older and my metabolism was slowing down. My diet has never changed or my physical activity. I don't drink soda or eat fast food. A burger every couple months has always been a luxury for me.I finally had enough and on my gut feeling I had the implant removed. 6 months later all the weight was gone and I feel like myself again. My diet and exercise levels (a couple times a week) remains the same as it always has. I know women react differently to birth control. Always follow your gut feeling, you know your body best. I'm glad I finally listened to myself.
I don't experience any negative side effects. I've had it for a little over six months now. I have gained a lot of weight but I'm not sure it has anything to do with the implant. My period is stupid now though. It's really really light. Like I don't need tampons I just use a panty liner everyday but sometimes I'll have to wear a pant liner for 3 weeks for spotting
The biggest problem was my period. It was highly irregular and would last for up to 18 days sometimes. No other major side effects were noticeable.
Worked great no side effects going to be getting it for the second time after I have my 3rd baby
I had a very terrible periods. They would last weeks long and would be very heavy. I would get very nauseous and throw up. I decided to get the implant at 16 years old. The implant did not hurt to get put in. After three months I stopped having to Period. I have had it in for two yars now. This is my last year and I dont know if I want to keep it. I have very mixed emotions about it. The benefits of the implant are it cleared up my skin and I dot have to deal with a period. The disadvantages of the implant are that I have gained weight and sometimes feel very bloated. I get cramps occasionally but not often. Also where the implant was put it on my arm sometimes get very itchy and uncomfortable feeling. I would have Moodswings but I don't know if that was because I was teenager or the implant. I feel that the implant was good for me at the time but now that 18 and little bit older I feel like i need something a little different. I would give it a 7/10
Worst experience I've had with a BC. Got it implanted 8/15, was good for about two months. From my wellness screen 10/15 weighing 134 to 01/16 weighing 143, then after working out heavily, cutting back on drinking and eating bad, and training for a spartan race, weighing in at 157 the heaviest i've ever been. I've never been that heavy or gained a large amount of weight faster than over a year. Wide mood swings, decreased labido, feeling no sense of worth despite having an amazing year of accomplishments. Got it out about a week ago and already feeling better, I literally want to jump my husbands bones when he walks through the door, and just feeling "like me" in general. This was expensive for me even with insurance, but if you have had trouble with hormonal BC before definitely do your research before you spend your money and commit.
I had implanon implanted for birth control and I didn't get pregnant so it worked. I have always had irregular periods no change there. Getting it implanted wasn't nearly as bad as I expected. The numbing shot was the worst of it and even that wasn't bad. The only problem I had with it was that it always felt like it was going to pop thru my skin so it constantly hurt. Every body is different and we all react differently. Do your research, decide if it is right for you, if you have problems talk to your Dr. Chances are you know your body better than your Dr. if you feel that you need it removed have it removed it is your body and it is up to you to make sure you are happy with your healthcare.
I have only had the implant for 2 weeks, but so far I have not had one negative reaction to it. It may still be too soon to review, but I am hoping I stay this way the whole time on it. I have actually noticed that it has changed my mood to be happier for some reason. I have read some reviews saying after 6 months they end up feeling depressed, so I'm hoping that doesn't happen to me. I didn't bruise that much at all when I got it put in my arm, the soreness didn't last very long and it wasn't even bad. Getting it put in wasn't very painful, the numbing needle was the worst of it and that was like 2 seconds of mild pain. I was so skeptical to get this put it because of all the reviews, but you really just have to see what's best for your body chemistry. Everybody is different. I made sure to get back into the gym routine and eat healthier and track my calories on myfitnesspal because I am terrified of the reviews of gaining weight.
this is currently my third year using implanon and i have no bad stories to say about it. although when i first put in, for the first few months the side effects were all over the place but nothing serious. the effects then moderated. the only issue now is inconsistent periods which may last more than normal (not always) or at times they just don't show up for a month or two. my doctor informed that the extended period is because of hormonal imbalance. there is too much progesterone and little estrogen. during the few months when my period extends, i take combined oral contraceptives this helps with the balance and in 2-3 days the period is gone. make sure you complete taking the monthly pack. other than this, i have no other side effects at all and i would try it again after the current one is out. remember, different bodies react differently. do not be afraid to try something just cause someone else says its bad.
I decided to use Implanon specifically for a birth control/contraceptive. It has definitely been effective for this purpose and for this reason, I would recommend women to take this route. However, I have been on Implanon for almost a year and a half now and have menstruated (heavily) cumulative for all but approximately 9 weeks of having this birth control. My doctor said everyone reacts differently and this may be normal... Anyways, I am happy with the effectiveness of a contraceptive and will stay with this birth control because of this reason. The bleeding has been intolerable at times but such is life.
There's a lot of bad reviews so I thought I would say something positive about it. I love this form of birth control! I got it in August 2015 and have not had a period since and it's very effective. Just because some bad side effects happen to other people doesn't mean it will happen to you! The only thing I have experienced is minor anxiety, but nothing I can't handle.
Nightmare birth control! I got this nexplanon inserted March 24 2016. It took my arm a whole month to recover. Side effects started slowly but continuely got worst. Within a few months I had INTENSE depression, anxiety, mood swings, paranoia and suicidal thoughts. I felt extremely lonely and hopeless. I would bust out crying all the time for no reason. While on this birth control I have never felt so bad and insecure about myself. I had my period for the whole month of September and I finally got it removed September 30 2016. I had nexplanon for 6 whole months and it was completely hell. I literally felt like I was losing my mind. I was in a fog everyday and no matter how much caffeine I took I had no energy. I've had the implant removed for a full week now and I'm starting to finally feel normal again. I would Never recommend this to anyone.
I went through premature menopause when I was only 25 years old because of the implanon!! Do not get this! By the time I got it removed, I was already post-menopausal and in premature ovarian FAILURE!!! There is NO CURE!!!
I've been on contraceptives for about 6 years now. Oral contraceptives didn't work for me-I was terrible about taking them on time. After about 4 years, I was over it. I was on them for a hormonal condition, so I sought out a birth control that still had hormonal release, was more reliable to prevent pregnancy, and something that wasn't as "risky" as an IUD. About 2 and a half years ago, I had the Nexplanon implant placed. Of course, it's very convenient, not having to worry about it for 3 years, and not having to worry about an unexpected pregnancy. I'm 20 years old, and my partner and I are not at all prepared to commit to a child. The experience itself wasn't bad-I have several piercings, so the hollow needle wasn't anything new to me. Just a bit painful with the numbing, and a bit "uncomfortable" when the device is placed. There is a small scar at the insertion site. At first, my periods shortened and were light. Approximately 3-4 months in, I began to experience heavy menstrual bleeding, which lasted 2 whole months. I am very small, about 115 pounts, and never bled heavily, or for a longer period than 7 days, before this. Anyways, it eventually stopped, then started up again a
If any women are going to get this don't just cause the doctor says " its gonna be perfect for you" or " its went well on my patients" all that other mumbo jumbo don't think it will work well on just cause they told u all of dat or just cause u know someone dat has it and it goes well for them does not mean it will go well for u, all women's bodies are different, sometimes you're body will react to it in a way u don't want it to be. So do your search, look it up on line see some real reviews about it from others think about first before getting think about it not once or twice but more than three times don't just get it with out think cause trust me I did dat and I regretted it so please, please, please think bout it cause this implant does not work well on others. P.s I forgot to share dis with my experience I commented bout it but for got but mines has a one start and starts off with the had it for couple month with the bad side effects)
Ive had this implant for a while and I regretted, at first I was going to get the mirena but I couldn't so the doctor told me to get it instead, it hurt so much when it was inserted. I had gotten weight gain, I lost so much hair cause of it, could not have sex if wanted to at all, unbalanced pH, long periods dat lasted a whole month or two,bad acne in the beginning. I used to get the depo shot and I like it better. The doctor kept on saying it wasn't the implant dat caused all of this and was trying to blame it on the shot but I never had this wen on the shot. If u are thinking bout getting or doctor is telling u to get it, think bout it first before getting or look up online and read actual real reviews bout it, I made a not so good decision of getting it with out thinking bout it first. I definitely don't recommend it also cause it not all women will get the satisfaction the need from it probably not work as well on you, so think about it first please . (p.s it hurts less getting it out )
I have been on Implanon for 5 years. I got it January 2008, it was recommended as the most effective birth control by Planned Parenthood. I guess because there is a high number of unplanned pregnancies where I live. I unfortunately just wanted a simpler method because I was a young single mother with a toddler and didn't plan on having children within the next 3 years. I got the implant and had a regular period and then April 3 months after the insertion I had a period for about 4 weeks, non-stop. They told me about the side affects and begged me to give it 3 more months (total of 6) to let my body adjust to it. I have removed and inserted the implant twice and after this year I think I will not continue to use it. Yes it has it's positives and is very effective in preventing pregnancy but last month I was on my period for a month straight, it has it's ups and downs. Summer of 2014 I didn't have a cycle and had gained about 25 lbs and seriously thought I was pregnant. It's not consistent and each time I get it removed and inserted I have different side affects and different issues. I guess I just got use to it but it has affected my sex drive, and the unpredictable periods makes it
I have been on Implanon before, many years ago. I don't remember having any side effects as bad as the ones I am having now. I got mine inserted beginning of July 16. This was recommended to me as I suffer chronic migraines and the pill puts you at higher risk of stroke - what my GP told me. I had breakthrough bleeding for 1 month and I have gained maybe 6 or 7 kgs. I don't eat very much, I exercise 3 times a week cardio and muscle as well. But because I have PCOS I gain weight like crazy even if something minuscule is changed in my body. Although everyone is different and absorbs chemicals differently in their body, I'm definitely not happy as my self confidence has decreased and my sex drive has plummeted.
On September 16th 2016 my implant was inserted; instead of researching and reading reviews 1st sadly I didn't. So far there aren't any side effects but i was advised to use condom for a month because it is not effective as yet. To be honest i am scared about the side effects that is to come. For now I have already started dieting and will start to exercise asap. weight gain is my main concern currently my weight is 160 lbs. Being stuck with this for 3 years! Well the best is yet to come I hope.
My friend was on the implanon and she recommended it 100% and said it was the best birth control shed ever been on. I thought I'd try it out since i had been on the pill for 7 years and had grown lazy on taking my pills on time. Not good. So I got on the implanon in February 2016 and have yet to have a day where I'm not on my period. When I got on it my doc had nothing but good things to say but when my period didn't stop she tried giving me 4 different kinds of other BC to "reset my cycle." Nothing worked. She told me to give this method a solid 9 month trial before getting it removed. I'm still on my period to this day. I do also have trouble with weight gain. I mean yeah, it works great... because who wants to have sex with someone who is constantly on their period. It's effected my sex life with my husband and it's extremely uncomfortable to be wearing a tampon every day of my life. I got on the implanon so I didn't have to take a pill, have little to no period at all, and be good on BC for 3 years while trying to finish school (one less thing to worry about). I had to take pills for the first 4 months until l gave up. I have been on my period consistently for the past 6 mo
I have been on this for 9 years every 3 years I get a new one put in I love it. I probably get a period 3 to 4 times a year randomly. Im glad I dont have to deal with periods every month. It is easy to gain weight. If your not a healthy eater or moderate healthy eater. Some times I do feel bloated. Sometimes I have even thought I was pregnant. Ended up not being, This Birthcontrol is #1 to me I will be on it till I hit menopause.
I wanted to give my review because I only read negative reviews when I was doing my research. I have had Implanon for about 4 months and so far I love it!! I was on a low dose birth control (Fencom Fe to be exact) for 8 years with no problems. I never missed a dose and hardly ever had any side effects except for the occasional spotting and nausea when I started a new pack of pills. I decided to switch because my husband and I decided we do not want kids and I wanted to make sure I was on the best birth control to prevent a pregnancy. My doc told me about Implanon and that's when the research started. It took me a year to get up the nerve to get the Implanon due to all the negative reviews. My concerns where: weight gain, emotional side effects, and a period that would last forever. I talked to my doctor and she reminded me that the only reviews you see online are negative. She has only had a couple patients get off Implanon and said I should do fine because of how well I did on regular birth control. The worst part about getting Implanon was the shot they give you to numb the arm. I actually had to get two because the first one didn't work. I was very nervous when the doc said she
Started at 130 pound and in 9 months I have gained over 30 pounds. Weight seems to keep going up. Constantly feeling depressed and very anxious. DO NOT RECOMMEND
Simply put i hate this birth control. I got it inserted February 2016, and im getting it removed on August 26. I decided to try it for about 6 months. I only had one period which was insane and two weeks of non stop bleeding. My face broke out so bad and went from oily to dry, and i have these terrible headaches. The mood swings are horrible. I haven't gotten pregnant which is about all that its good for.
I have had an implanon for now three years, am just waiting to remove it over the weekend. it has been helpful because i can't stand tablets of injections. I have had no problems of weight gain or any serious issues. I eat clean, exercise when i can and my body weight has been manageable, i actually lost a few extra pounds through clean eating and exercising. the only issue i had was spotting for a week after my period, this i told my doctor and he prescribed something to combat the spotting. Otherwise am grateful i didn't have to take pills or injections. am looking forward to using it again after my first baby,
Been on the BC for about 4 months, since I had my daughter. So far, I got one period a month after insertion for about 1.5 weeks but it was very light. I just barely started my period again after the entire time of not having one, except that one time. So far it is light but I am feeling a bit bloated and crampy sorta. Not bad pains but just wondering if that is normal.. But yeah, I like it.
I've had 0 problems with implanon. no weight gain, no acne, nothing. I've never gotten any abnormal discomfort where it is placed or anything. I'm exactly how I was before I started it. I think it's the best birth control
While the implanon was the most effective and convenient form of birth control I've used, it was also one of the most awful experiences of my life. I heard about the implanon causing many problems for women but decided I'd still give it a shot. I had the Implanon in my arm for about 3 weeks and got it removed a few days ago. About 4 days after I got the implanon, I noticed I was starting to become very anxious and depressed. As time went by, it got worse. I tried to tell myself that it would pass but the anxiety got so bad, I started getting suicidal thoughts. My doctor told me the implanon was not the source of my anxiety issues but I think that's BS because these symptoms disappeared almost immediately after I got it removed. And I haven't felt that way since I've gotten it taken out. I feel like myself again now that it's out. Would never recommend to anyone.
I have had this implanon for two years now. Right now I am sitting with a grade 3 astroblastoma. Symptoms of the tumor started a few months after I got the implant. I am not saying this cause the tumor but the side effects that were never explained to me that I found on the website are exactly the same. Would not recommend this to anyone. I will recommend anyone who has it to remove it as soon as possible
I have had it for about 2 years now. Didn't gain any major weight. I am a college student so this was awesome as I am a forgetful person. i have always suffered with acne a little bit and I do not know much about weight gain as I have a pretty clean diet and workout daily. I recommend to anyone! I am also not afraid of needles and they numbed the arm super well when they put it in. No problems!
As soon as I got the implanon in my arm my periods were non existent. I went a year and a half with no period or even a trace of one. I've had depression and anxiety for most of my life but I finally got off of my medication for 2 years. When I got my implanon I had to get back onto my migraine and depression medications. I find myself crying a lot more, having mixed emotions, and not wanting to get out of bed. Also, I've went from 130 lbs to 175lbs, which doesn't help with the depression. In my opinion 50 lbs is outrageous, I've always been an athlete, and ate right. Even exercising and eating right doesn't seem to help me loose weight. Finally I've decided to get the darn thing out. I will post about my experience with getting it out when I do. But over all, the purpose of the implanon is to not get your pregnant, it does this well.
I hated this birth control. While insertion was mildly uncomfortable had immediate emotional side effects. In the first 2 weeks following insertion I felt hopeless, unloved, unreasonably lonely and verged on suicidal at times. I had known some emotional effects would happen so I waited to see if these feeling would subside. Luckily (kinda) those feelings changed, but into feelings of short tempered, spiteful, moody, isolated, anger with no desire for affection or sex. I experienced only mmildspoting in the year I had it in. While I only gained a few pounds I gained those few on top of my post pregnancy weight which for me was very unusual as my normal weight is 120 and I had weighed 151 at the removal time. I just had implanting removed around 2 weeks age. I spotted for about 3 days around day four BUT yesterday I started the heaviest period I've ever experienced...I woke up in a literal pool of blood last night and have been soaking tampons in a hour or less. This is HORRIBLE! The only plus to this is preventing pregnancy. I do not recommend.
I honestly think some people just respond differently to the implant. I constantly read horrible reviews but personally, I am 21 and have had the implant for almost 3 years and have never ever had any problem with it. The beginning days to a year were not as dreadful as most of you are saying. I am very thankful that none of these horror stories have happened to me. I haven't had a period(only spotting or a light period) and I only feel soreness in breasts sometimes. Depression/mood swings are nothing more than what I used to feel before using birth control.I guess you will never know until you try it. For me, it has worked great.
So, my experience with the Implanon (Nexplanon) Implant was adventurous, to say the least, and not in good way. The second week of insertion, I felt like I was pregnant. Literally, from food cravings to nausea. I felt light headed from time to time. And mood swings, OH the MOOD SWINGS! But at that point in time I didn't think anything of it. I figured it was just my body's way of adapting to a new medicine. Whatever. A couple months later, I talked to my doctor about getting back on my depression medicine...no big deal. I've been depressed most of my life. Side note that i though was pretty cool: Over time I noticed a day before I started my period the area that the device was located would feel a burning pinching sensation... Much cleaner than my normal surprise so I added that to the pros list. As well as increased sex drive ;) Fast forward a year and I start seeing a change in my work ethic. I'm blaming all my problems on other people. I'm literally lashing out (crying hysterically over the smallest bull. Cursing people out, including a manager. Got my first customer complaint, ever) at my place of employment. My managers and coworkers start thinking I have some
I got this thing put in mid-March 2015. Decided since I was becoming sexually active, I wanted to be as safe as possible in preventing pregnancy. I've been on birth control for over 8 years (took Loestrin 24 Fe and then Minastrin 24 Fe... I can only sing praises) because I had incredibly heavy periods. The pills did the job; never had a heavy period and my skin was clear. When I began Nexplanon, I didn't have a period for almost months. The bar in my arm was a little uncomfortable, but no big deal. Then I started getting my period for a week and a half, much heavier than it was when I was on the pill. I was off my period for almost 2 months, then back on for 2 weeks, then off for a month and a half, then back on for another 2.5-3 weeks. It's been a year and 3 months, and I'm currently on week 5 of my period, with no sign of stopping. I get PMS worse than I ever did (cravings, bloating, cramps, headaches, moodiness) and bleed more than ever since I first started my periods. It's been a year and 3 months and my sex drive is nonexistent, I've been paranoid, anxious, depressed, and confused, and all the bleeding is killing my mood and making me feel weak. I was patient with this th
I got mine March. 2016. My libido is declining. Which I do not like. And I feel pregnant. My boobs feel big, I'm irritable, have anxiety, and am tired. But overall. I guess it works. I do not have acne so far. But back pain is crazy. Lower back mostly. I guess it still has to kick in. I bruised big 5ime. And it tried to come out the day it was put in. My arm swelled. But it's ok so far. Bruswing is gone
I had the implanon placed in November 2015 and now as of June 2016 I have gained 40 pounds. I have horrible depression. I will cry for no reason and when people ask why I'm crying I literally tell them that I don't know what's wrong. The one nice thing for me is that besides the first couple months when I would just bleed randomly I haven't had a period. It does its job as far as preventing pregnancy for me but the side effects are not worth the implant. I really would research on this before getting one placed.
I've received implanon & loved it at first. I love the fact that I didn't have to remember to take pills or get shot. It was great for me until I gained 20 pounds, I've been petite my whole life now I have face and upper body fat that I need to get rid of.
I'm a mother of two children, unsure if we want to go for a third. I was tired of being on oral contraception, I would forget to take a pill and get on my period. Decided to go for a contraception that would give me (us) a couple years to decide if we want more children. I gravitated towards the nexplanon as I didn't have to take my pants off! I went in for an IUD and thought the arm seemed so simple! It was terrible. I got implanted on January 20th 2016-I finally removed it on May 23rd. My symptoms immediately dissipated once it was taken out. Symptoms: bleeding- I bled the entire 4 months. I couldn't even tell you when I had a period as it was so constant. Acne, my face and back broke out. I haven't had acne since high school! Lack of sex drive, probably a combination of hormones and bleeding all the time. It was awful. Back on oral contraception---- NEVER again. Avoid!!!!! Terrible.
DO NOT TRY THIS TYPE OF BIRTH CONTROL! I had this put into my arm in November of 2015 and all was great for about a month. After that side effects just came one after another. In December and January I started to have really high anxiety. I do suffer from anxiety, but I have gotten help for it and learned how to deal with it very well. However, after the implant I felt like I could not control my anxiety and it consumed my life. I also noticed my face getting extremely oily, I have never been this oily. I went to a dermatologist and my primary care physician, both chalked it up to age. I figured having oily skin isn't so bad, and thought I should change my facial routine as my skin may be irritated.After about 3 weeks of extreme oil production my chin began to develop really painful cystic acne. I went back to the doctor, she again told me it was my age, she gave me a prescription to spot control acne and I was on my way. Shortly after my acne just went nuts! It had migrated allover my face and even to my scalp. There were weeks where had it under control, but 2-3 days laters I would break out again. I had really bad acne in high school so I thought I was having another episode in
Have had it for about a year now, everything is fine & I love it except for the fact I bleed almost every time I have sex & before I never had a period now when I think it's going to stop it comes back! In other words, I can't even have sex! It's been on going for about 2-3 months. No pain just annoyance never knowing when it could happen.
I had a very good experience, I would recommend it to anyone. I heard people has side effects but mine is none. I have it in for 2 years now, no periods. I would take it again when the time comes to remove it. Thanks
I had the implanon for almost two years it's was the worst thing ever I would never get this again! I had my period for a whole year the first year. Completely stopped after that. I also developed horrible anxiety and depression. I gained more weight then when I was pregnant and it's been almost a year since I took it out and I still can't get pregnant. Would not recommend it to anyone.
I've had the implanon for nearly a year now and I love it so much. If I could be appointed the official ambassador of this thing, I would! The insertion was quick, simple and painless. I had a small bruise which was easily covered and went away quickly. I have a tiny scar the size of a pen tip now. During the first 3-4 months, my period was a bit erratic. It would last about 6-7 days and it would sometimes come once a month, sometimes more or less. It was much lighter than my natural periods. I took naproxen which would stop the bleeding most of the time. However after about six months my period has basically stopped. Occasionally I have an hour or so of spotting, and rarely I might have a few days in a row. One liner a day is always enough for the bleeding now. I have no period pain for the first time in my life. I haven't experienced any wait gain, and my acne is no worse than when I was on the pill. You can't beat the ease of this thing. In Australia, it cost about $50 (including insertion by a doctor) for three years protection. I often go weeks without thinking about contraception. I don't even have to worry about pregnancy, knowing this is the most effective contr
I have had the implanon for a four months. I was really scared about getting it, I was very sick with a cold and a fever. The last thing I felt like was having two needles in my arm but I felt nothing after the anesthesia. My arm was severely bruised for about two weeks afterwards, but I couldn't feel the bruise at all. For the first two months I didn't get my period at all. But over the last two months I have had my period about three times. This hasn't really bothered me as the periods haven't been very painful and when I was on the pill, the pill couldn't hold off my period (usually I have extremely painful periods). My doctor did also warn me that it may take a few months for my body to accept the implanon and for it to stop my period. I have no experienced any changes in mood swings or weight, but when I have my period I am constantly hungry, this has only happened since using the implanon. The worst aspect of the implanon for myself is that it sometimes causes a discomfort in my arm, which can sometimes feel like a throbbing pain. I wouldn't consider it painful, but it is annoying and uncomfortable. It happens on and off but I would say it happens at least a few times a week
I absolutely hate this birth control it does its job I have gotten pregnant on a bunch of birth controls but miscarried becuase of my condition but I was 160 when I got the birth control that was April of 2015 it is now March 2016 abd I weight 236 I have tried dieting and eating healthy and it truly don't help. I have been pit on antidepressants and anxiety medicine which I never needed before . My acne is horrifying I have never been this bad ever in my life. And after being with my husband for 10 years and never having a sex problem honest to God but since I've had this thing my sex drive has gone down I literally don't even want to be touched I'm so miserable and I can't wait I got to the dr. Tommrow abd I'm getting it removed !!!!!!!! But my sister lucky her she has it and is skinny as a stuck still but she did go thru some emotional issues at first but they seems to have disappeared so this thing is great f9r some and sucks for other unfortunately I'm that percent of who it sucks for.
My name is Fayth, I am 16 years only. It is February 26, 2016 and I have had implanon since October 17, 2014. It is a fairly average type of birth control. The only thing that concerns me, is that I haven't had my period in 14 months. I had it for a month straight, December of 2014. And I haven't had it since. Is that normal? Should I be worried? I know it will be odd for the first 6-12 months but is 14 months without a period a good thing? I am very concerned.
I used it after having my first daughter in 2012. My period went away after 3 months. Not til i lost 20lbs did my period come back regularly but light. Left it in for 2 years then removed it to try for baby number 2. I got it in may and once again my period was gone. I have been loosing weight layely and now my period is back. Ive been getting it non stop since mid january with only about a t day break in between. Im having mixed feeling about it now
I got on the Implant after having my daughter in 2014. It was a easy process and painless (after being numbed) of course. Since having it , I have had a prolong period, spotting, or no period at all. I've gained weight (most all of my pregnancy weight back). Lack of energy, headaches, and very fatigue. ..Overall it's effective. I'll probably take a break from in for a couple of months and then resume use
I love the implanon this is my second time using it i don't really have many side affect but sore breast and slight weight gain.. but after my 3 year are almost up I lose all the weight .. im pround to say im still the same size as 8th grade im 21 years old so I really love this birth control getting ready to redo in 4 months
Implanon gave me headaches, irregular bleeding, nausea & severe depression for 2 years. I gained 12 kilos & it's insertion and removal gave me obvious scars on my upper arm. I do not recommend it for anyone. Steer clear of it.
Gained at least 10 kilos. Sent me into awful depression. I've not been able to shake the weight and struggle to leave the house because of the embarrassment. Had my period for 3 weeks of most months. Experienced dreadful acne which I never used to suffer from. If you have a tendency to gain weight or struggle to maintain it, this is not for you!!
This birth control is by far the worst one I have ever used. I have relentless acne from it that will not respond to prescription creams and pills, severe mood swings, and worst of all I have been bleeding every single day without fail for five months. I had it inserted in July and am having it taken out next week. The ease of not having to take a pill everyday is absolutely not worth these side effects.
I got on Nexplanon sometime in June. My arm was sore for a bit, but I got over it. July there was a little bit of spotting, August I bled a little bit everyday. September and October, there was nothing. I didn't gain any weight. I have broken out on my face though. However these fast few weeks have been stressful because I am moving into an apartment on top of working and going to school. Anyway, I love that I don't have to remember to take a pill every single day. I dont know why more people don't get the implant...
I decided to get the implanon/nexplanon because I didn't want to deal with the hassle, of having to get the prescription and taking it everyday at the same time, anymore. I am 22 and study abroad. Another reason to get it since it lasts for 3 years :) I have had the implant for about 8 months now. After the first 4 months of having it inserted - my periods stopped coming. A positive, normal side effect. My acne returned after about 2 months pretty badly but I had it before I took the pill too. This birthcontrol doesn't contribute to regulating acne. The ingredients are not designed for that. Not it has gotten much better and I go to see my dermatologist once a month. Nothing too bad. I would simply recommend this to anyone who lives a busy lifestyle. Luckily I have had rather mild or positive side effect with this lovely choice of birth control. P.S. after removing it I was told that fertility goes back to normal very quickly. Another plus!
I have had this in for almost 2 years now and i have gained 20 pounds already. Other than that (which is big in my book) the implanon is easy to use.
Implanon was perfect for me because I am very forgetful and a busy college student and could not trust myself to take the pill everyday at the same time. Got Implanon almost 3 years ago. First year a lot of spotting, but less towards end, periods were far and few. First half of 2nd year was great, then towards 3rd I get my periods like I would without Implanon. Since insertion I have gained 30 lbs, but I would only put 15 towards Implanon as weight gain is a common side effect. Moods were no different. As for insertion procedure, didn't feel a thing, site was bruised and sore for about a week afterwards, then had to wait one week for it to take effect. I am getting a replacement rod put in at the end of the month and would definitely recommend this to college aged girls due to the efficiency and ease of use and it lasts for 3 years!
The additional side-effects that i suffered were no where near worth enough for me to ever recommend this to anyone. If you are curious about it do some serious research before choosing this option.
I actually started the patch to regulate my periods and stop my heavy, irregular bleeding. The first week was rough (I was constantly sick to my stomach) but then things calmed down for the most part. I've noticed though that I feel "full" much more quickly with meals and eat a lot less. Birth control normally makes me depressed but I've been okay on this medication. (I feel much better than I did when my hormones were all out of whack with PCOS.) I've lost 12 pounds in a month, which is a nice side effect, considering that I'm much heavier than I'd like to be. Hopefully it continues to be a good medication for me.
The side effects are pretty terrible this time around. I have nausea and vomiting reminiscent of morning sickness for the two weeks o have been using the patch. My breast have swollen and become heavy and are painful. The first week I was so tired I could not function at work. I had to take a day off to recharge. Currently I am experiencing a lot of stomach issues, diarrhea in particular. I'm in the bathroom up to 5x a day. It is effective in preventing pregnancy but the symptoms are as bad as my terrible morning sickness.
I been bleeding for 4 weeks . It's my second month and my period won't go away. Very concerned .
I started the Xulane patch almost 3 months ago and I can't wait to never take this form of birth control again. After a week or two I had horrible nausea which led to contracting a stomach bug. I somehow received every single horrible symptom of birth control through this method. I have horrible cystic back acne which I never had before, I am incredibly depressed/mean/ moody almost all of the time, complete loss of appetite but somehow weight gain??, fatigue, sore breasts, rash on location of patch- never have I experienced such awful symptoms and I thought the standard birth control pills were uncomfortable. I recommend to other younger women taking the patch that if you are at month 2-3 in this birth control and you can't shake the symptoms, stop using it.
This birth control has been amazing. I have tried several different pills over the years and I have always had horrible side effects like acne (terrible, terrible acne), Sahara desert vagina, which was the absolute worse, and ZERO sex drive. I felt like a dead body on previous forms of birth control. I have been on Xulane for about 2 years and for me it is the miracle birth control. I have no acne for the first time in 8+ years. My vagina does not get dry at all, matter of fact, it's actually more wet and I feel alive again. I have a normal and healthy sex drive and I am finally able to have sex without excruciating pain that I had with other forms of BC. I hope they never ever change the formula in this patch because it has done amazing things for me. And, I have not gotten pregnant on it in the 2 years I have been on it, so it is definitely effective!
Started the Xulane patch January 2018 and got off of it January 2019. When I first put the patch on, I was nauseas for about a day or two. My boyfriend told me I had mood swings the first week (I don't recall having any) and I bled for about two weeks on and off. After that, my periods became lighter and I stopped cramping overall. The xulane patch is absolutely amazing. I would definitely use it again if I ever decide to get back on birth control. Also, I've been off of it for over a month now and I get nauseas from time to time, not sure if that's because my body is adjusting to being off the hormones or if something else is going on... but overall, the xulane is definitely the way to go. I did not experience headaches, acne, weight gain, or any form of depression!
Some nausea mainly when first started and when I get off of it for the week of my period and get back on it I get really nauseous. After that I'm fine. Although during my period I get horrible migraines. I never used to get them before the patch. Those are the only downfalls for me.
Only been on it for a few days now, but I feel so relieved that I don't have crazy side effects! I do feel more nauseous than usual and am experiencing some light headaches, but it's very easy to manage. Really grateful, this is my first birth control method I've used.
I wanted a form of contraception that couldn't be seen by my parents (I'm under 18). I'm scared of shots and I'm also too forgetful for the pill so when I found out the patch existed I was so happy! I put the patch on my butt and it can't even be seen when I'm wearing a bathing suit! I've also had no symptoms at all so far and my acne has lessened. The patch is perfect for me and super convenient
I have been on Xulane for a month now. My first week I thought it was awful, day 2 i woke up vomiting and had abdomen cramping. i thought i had a virus. it went away after a few days and i returned to normal. I have cried a lot more than i did when taking the pill but i've learned to get use to it. my sex drive is still the same. My only complaint is the cramping on my period, but hopefully it will go away. i always forgot the pill but with the patch it's so easy to stick on and carry on! I have been wanting to gain weight and the patch makes me hungry all the time so it's helping! I recommend Xulane, just be strong through the first month.
I absolutely love the patch. I only have to remember to change it once a week instead of everyday like the pill. It stays on even while swimming and even surfing. I havent had an side effects while on it and have been on it for the past 7 years.
I've tried multiple different birth controls including the shot, & many different types of birth control pills & so far this is the only birth control to not affect my moods terribly. On the depo I was very angry & mean, & it made me sick & actually caused me to lose a lot of weight. On the pill I would gain weight & my boobs would get bigger, my acne would go away but I would get super depressed & suicidal. I've been on the patch for a week & a half & so far I feel amazing. I don't notice any mood swings, slight nausea & headache but nothing major. But I have been having terrible breakouts since I started it. I tend to breakout a little on my period but right now I have multiple cystic pimples that hurt really bad, & I have acne all over my back & chest which is something I've never struggled with before. I'm gonna stay on it & hope my acne levels out but so far other than that I do love the patch..
I've been on the patch for about 4 days now. After applying it for the first time I I felt a very warming/hot sensation right beneath the patch. The area around the patch itches a lot and being that it is easy to forget it is there, I almost unknowingly want to scratch directly over the area and have to catch myself. I applied my patch on a Sunday afternoon. The next day I felt so terrible!! Really nauseous (and that's unusual for me) and fatigue and severe menstrual cramps! As far as the cramps I thought well it's only been one day, maybe they will go away.. NO!!! The nausea AND cramps continued. The first two days were the absolute worst. I did not feel like myself at all, I could not even function nor did I have an appetite. Started to notice as each day passed the cramps did not. I finally decided I just couldn't take it anymore and removed the patch and felt so much better after that. My mom uses the patch and doesn't have any issues so I figured I wouldn't either but I guess that saying “everyone's body is different” is true.
I have lost over 30 pounds on this patch. I never knew why I was losing weight so fast I wasn't doing anything different .
I have been on the xulane 3 months and I have experienced headaches around each patch change, I experience mood swings a lot I see myself being more mean and a little more depressed I did not get a rash but I did itch around the patch area, I started the patch because I couldn't remember to take the pill and my cycle flow has gotten lighter I do skip the patch free week because I do not want a cycle but for now during my week where I am supposed to have a cycle I just get spotting to light cycle.
I love it haven't seen my period in awhile lol. I don't let my body take the week break and I don't have any side affects.When I first started to use after I gave birth it was horrible but after it got in my system I was fine.
I've used Xulane for 4 months and it was very convenient and easy to use. It was very easy to just peel the patch and put it on. I did not get a rash on the site where my patch was. It was very effective for birth control, I didn't get pregnant. I have a hard time remembering to take birth control pills daily, but it was easy to just change the patch once a week. I did not like the patch because I experienced mood swings, depression, and terrible headache. I stopped taking it, however I'm reconsidering getting back on it because I am having a hard time remembering to take my pills.
Made me feel very very depressed and had major anxiety.
I've been using the xulane patch for about 3 months now and I feel horrible for those who've had a negative experience using it because mine has been quite pleasant. I virtually dont have any symptoms accept for occasional mild cramping nothing serious, dont notice a negative change in my mood, and my periods are lighter which is a plus. Its so easy to use and its discreet with the right shirt. I honestly have nothing negative to say about the patch accept they should make the patch clear so that its not so noticeable when wearing different kind of shirts. I was afraid to take it initiallybecause many people had such negative things to say about it. I'm glad I decided to try reguardless it works great for me. ?? Dont always listen to the negative things said about xulane cause it probably wont apply to you. ??
Great way to have birth control. Easy to use, and doesn't require daily pills. No side effects, other than occasionally having itching at the site, but that lessened as I altered application sites so it wasn't in the same places so often. Great is you are managing a chronic condition like endo.
I started using Xulane a little over a month ago and I absolutely love it and would highly recommend it. I figured I'd try the patch first since I didn't want anything implanted in me and Ive had bad experiences with the shot and the pill. The only side effect Ive gotten from it are mild head achs the first couple days after putting a new patch on. Nothing that Tylenol couldn't fix.. I got my period the first day of the no patch week and it was super light with no cramping and it was over with the following Sunday.. Also one of the side effects that was kind of a worry for me was the mood swings but I feel like after wearing Xulane for the first week or so my mood improved. Plus it's super easy to use and you don't even know its there!
I was given the patch as an alternative for the depo shot. The depo shot made me gain weight and very tired all the time. The patch was horrible! Like many people on this page my experience was very bad. The patch almost immediately made me depressed. I had bad feelings, feelings of not being good enough, anxiety, not wanting to live anymore. I knew it was the patch that caused these feelings because the whole year before i state don it I was a very happy and positive person. Even though in the back of my mind I knew it was the medication I tried to jump out of a moving car because i thought my loved ones will be better off without me. This all happened in a period of 3 weeks after starting on the medication. About a week after I removed the patch I started feeling like myself again. I would never under no circumstances recommend this to ANYONE!
This was my first form of birth control I ever tried, so it took me a bit to get used to artificial hormones. When I first went on it, I seemed to be naseous all the time, I had bad mood swings and seemed to be angry a lot (when I am usually a generally happy person), breast soreness, and worse PMS. My symptoms have gotten better, but after three months now I still suffer from some of these symptoms, mostly moodiness. Some days I am fine, but I have really bad days and they tend to be right when I put my patch on. It is important to keep in mind that you are putting so much more hormones into your body at once versus the pill which spreads it out more by giving you smaller doses daily. I do not skip my period with the patch and I haven't seen any changes with my period or any irregular bleeding or spotting. Other than my uncomfortable symptoms I am still experiencing, I have liked how easy this form of birth control is and that I only really have to worry about it once a week. I have never had problems with the patch falling off and my skin is not sensitive so I haven't had any rashes like others have experienced. I am now switching to the pill because of my mood swings and nausea.
I started using the patch about 5 months ago, this will be my second time using the patch. Since i have started back using it i do get headaches maybe like the 1st couple of days but I keep Tylenol handy. I have had a lot more mood swings. I can say that I would recommend this drug ONLY if you can deal with the mood swings. I feel so bad for my partner he doesn't know what mood im in daily so he waits for me to start the day off. That's how bad my mood swings are, i guess in a way I have tried to control it but i have low tolerance its hard with so many hormones.
When I first started the patch I did so during my period and it kept my breasts sore for weeks, it did subside. I find that it makes my moods way better as I suffered from really bad PMS. I do get headaches in which go away with Advil.. and my appetite has gone down a bit.. I've been getting full a lot faster. My sex drive hasn't gone down like other reviews I've read.. and I haven't experienced any itchiness or rash around the application site. (I use the back of my shoulder). I have had a yeast infection but I learned the hormones do put balance you PH so I've been eating more yogurt and pickles. Overall, it's not bad!
I started off with the patch, from that point on I have used the nexplanon, depo, nuvaring and any other method you can think of besides tuba-ligation. I am 21 and I am currently back on the patch, i think everyone's experience is different because I dont remember having side effects the first time on it. However .... This time I get migraines when I first put it on, maybe for the first 2-3 days. After the migraines or maybe the week before my period is supposed to come on I am a true demon, let's not talk about the week of my period I have to seclude myself in my room because I am too emotional. The patch has kept me from getting pregnant which i like. But i am starting to wonder if its worth the pain and abuse I cause to people, I dont have bad thoughts I am just angry all the time. Depending on your strength and tolerance of the headaches and emotional distress depends on if you would be able to handle the patch or not.
I've started the xulane patch right after my first check up after having my LO. Since March I have had bad migraines and extremely painful stomach that last for more than a hour. I thought the patch would diminish how many days my period is on but it hasn't changed that. I also have bad anxiety. This was my first time trying bc and I feel it was a mistake.
Its easy to use and it stays on the skin well. I have been experiencing almost all the side effects. Very tired due to lack of sleep from the patch. Nauseous all the time. Tender breast, mood swings and very irritable. Oh and the constant headaches.
I took BC when i was 15 and was terrible at remembering the pill. Decided to try again at 22 and Was on Xulane for a week and it was the worst week of my life. Tender breasts EVERY DAY and BLEEDING ALL THE TIME. I wanted to get on birth control because my period was so heavy. A week and a day in, I removed my patch and was STILL having break through bleeding. My obgyn didn't even bother to tell me I would be bleeding all the time. It's been 4 days now and my breasts still hurt and I'm still ranging from spotting to medium bleeding. After a few days in i started crying over everything and depressed and was tired ALL the time. I was toss and turn even if i slept 7-8 hours. I've never been exhausted waking up early and because of the patch i was so tired to even go to class. I seriously should've just avoided BC all together since my periods always last 3-4 days. Don't even bother with this patch if you don't want half the side effects. I can't wait till this bleeding stops.
I have been on the patch for about 2 1/2 months, I would NOT recommend this is you have bad mental health issues. This patch has got me all over the place with my anxiety & bad thoughts.
I was on BC for a total of 6 years now and I've been on the patch for 3 of them. I started with birth control pills but would sometimes forget them so the patch is much easier. I initially used BC to help regulate my periods, now it's for contraceptive as well. It does a great job for both! While on it my periods were really short and a lot lighter. I love the low maintenance of the patch and how easy it is; I've loved it the whole time I was on it. However, I've been off of it for close to a month now as a short break from extra hormones. Since it's been off I notice I've been less moody, less depressed, and have had less migraines. I really like the convenience of the patch, but I don't know if continuing with it is worth the mental instability now.
So far I've been on the patch for almost two weeks now. I have already lost 7 pounds while being on it. I'm eating like I always have but I just don't understand why I'm losing so much weight so quickly. I did have a terrible migraine on my first day or two and I've had a few nauseous feelings here and there and I've been more gassy than before. I do like it because you do not know that it's there except for when you have a terrible itch and go to scratch it then realize it's there. My sex drive has went down a little bit and it did cause me a yeast infection. So that made me start feeling very insecure. I have yet to experience a period with it. I will update when I do so.
I love this! I noticed changes within days with my mood but in a good way, I was happier and calmer but got a bit nauseated now and then but it was tolerable. My boobs got heavier which is a plus but I was a B cup so I was pretty ok. Slight headache now and again but wasn't bad. I was nervous reading some reviews but give it a try it's incredible. BUT the worst side effect is skin irritation, I already have sensitive skin so by day 2/3 it's itching badly but I hate through it, it leaves a bumpy rash in the area, but it goes away after some days just rub cream on it. I haven't had unprotected intercourse yet because I wanted to make sure it was working, I am currently on my patch free week, day 2, and got my “period” right on time. I initially took this because my periods were super heavy since I've had them, but this was my first month and my period is lighter !!!
Well this was my first (and will probably be my only) form of bc I'll take. And honestly, I love it! Once I put it on, I practically forget its there. Obviously I did get side effects: I remember I had a big mood swing when I changed patches, the skin around the patch itches sometimes, and I have gotten sore breasts and headaches. But the headaches may of just been fromlack of sleep too-nothing advil can't fix. And honestly, the side affects dont bother me too much either since their the same side affects I get from PMS anyways lmao Its also stupidly easy to manage-just slap on a new patch every week for three weeks and thats it. Its not a pain to remember. While it did work really well for me, I am seeing a lot of reveiws of other people getting really sick off of this. Please do your research on the side effects!! Everyone's body is different, and if the patch doesnt work for you, remember there are plenty of other bc options you can take! :)
Since taking Xulane, I have had pretty bad headaches and just been monstrously hungry all the time! Period has been pretty normal, happens during the week off from the patch. Simple and very easy to forget that its on but its doing its job.
I have taken just about every type of birth control besides IUD, and this one is my favorite. I had a horrible, horrible two years with the implant and had it taken out early to switch to this and it was immediate relief. It does mess with your hormones, so you're aren't going to feel as normal as you would if you weren't taking it. I have pretty bad nausea after I put a new patch on for about 24 hours, and I have a few mental illnesses that it doesn't exactly help with, but honestly, they aren't that bad in comparison to most other birth controls...
Well no baby so it's done it's job but the side effects are noticeable, a bit more moody but nothing I can't control, mild nausea around when you're supposed to put on a new patch - not bad at all. BUT goodbye sex drive, there's almost no point in wearing it for me cause I never wanna have sex! Other than that I've had no issues.
The patch made it very easy to control my period, (not often) but sometimes I would be able to get my period earlier or later if I was trying to plan around a vacation. However! I would not recommend because this patch has made me incredibly moody and depressed. Sometimes I feel like I'm going insane, my partner unfortunately has noticed a severe change in my mood. It's nice to be able to plan my period but for me, it's not worth having such an impact on my mental health.
Started taking Xulane patch the end of August and it was supposed to lighten my period. My doctor advised I can start at any time and told me I could keep the patch on for the fourth week to skip a period. I skipped my period for approximately 2 weeks, then came the “breakthrough bleeding” that lasted over 22 days ranging in different colors and flows; all that was accompanied with painful cramps ever single day! My hormones were all over the place! Not to mention having to see blood every single day all day. It started also messing with my legs making them feel like they had air bubbles in them. I stopped after using Xulane for 6 weeks and my period stopped the following week and a half. Do your research before using this product as everyone's body is different.
I've been on Xulane since 2014.. I would say that it was a great form of contraception if that's what you're taking it for. Me I'm taking it for endometriosis as well as ovarian cysts. Went to the doctor and I currently have a small little cyst hanging out along with a fibroid which I never had before.. both in which my doctor says is alright to have based on the sizes. But anyway. I called my doctor today and actually requested that she change my birth control because I literally have every side effect minus the deathly ones.. I have horrible mood swings, anxiety, breast tenderness and swelling, irritation and rash at the location of the patch.. high blood pressure.. now I already had a little anxiety before the patch but this patch I've found has made me crazy anxious. I'm pretty shocked my fiancé hasn't left me yet lol but it works well for what it's suppsed to do but now that I'm well educated on the side effects it's definitely not worth the risks. I'm changing this form of BC because the side effects to me are much greater than the benefits.
Ive been on xulane for a month, so ik I'm not the best review (however everyone is different). Personally I really like it, i do get some pimple rash where I stick it, but it's been good about clearing up on it's own plus it doesn't itch or cause any discomfort just looks displeasing. I did have massive mood swings at first which almost made me not take it but I also have mental/emotional issues that could of played a far greater impact then the pill. Honestly tho outside the minor pimple rash from the sticker, nausea, and mild headaches; I actually really love it. I've been trying desperately to lose weight and im starting to think it was my previous BC pill holding my efforts back bc so far I've lost 6lbs (I've kept to the same exercise habits, maybe less food since I find myself incredibly full off nothing on this). I do worry about the rash but it's honestly easily overlooked considering how easy it is. I do have endometriosis, perhaps I will write an update or another review if i notice it does help (my periods have progressively been getting worse, i got on BC originally bc I ended up fainting on my period which was my sign that i needed to see the doctor about my period)
This is my first BC and will probably be my only one because of how low maintenance it is. I chose the patch because I hate taking pills, didn't want anything inserted in me, and didn't wanna get shots. I've been using the patch for about five months now and so far, no pregnancy scares, no harsh side effects, and my period is regulated. The only types of side effects I get are migraines and nausea which are tolerable in my opinion. It doesn't fall off during the week, even when I shower or workout.
I'm a teen and I took this for ovarian cyst and acne. When I first started taking the pills I didn't have many side affects but as I took them and changed them I developed a ton of nausea and stomach problems so I got off of them for a few months. The stomach problems began to get a tiny bit better after I had to be put on medicine for ulcer and gastritis which I feel was a factor from the pills all and all. I decided to try the patch because I couldn't deal with the horrible cramps I had after coming off of the pills. This patch after a few hours cause vomiting all night and terrible pain in my stomach so I took it off and after a few hours of vomiting I finally started to feel a little better. Please do your research before starting birth control because it can cause so many other issues such and stress and anxiety as I have experienced because if I knew I would be having after side affects of stomach issues i would have never gotten on them in the first place.
My 1st time using this.. but within a couple of days I felt the side effects. It started with a banging ass headache ? Then the next day I started feeling pain in my stomach, I been emotional & really hungry. But so far I like the patch. It doesn't come on & I think this is the most easiest bc a female can be on. It's easy 2 use & also the directions are as easy as 123!
Okay I was only on it for 2 days and in the middle of the night i started feeling gassy and nauseous. Trust me when I say that's unusual for me. I know it's not that long for me to tell but I know that it was from the patch. I had a feeling it was. The same day I took it off the same day I started feeling better. I was on Lo loestrin fe and switched mid period because I felt like it wasn't working EVEN THOUGH I had been on it for 5 YEARS. I'm going to talk back to my doctor today to see if I can switch back after my period runs out. But I can say that the patch works. It does stop your period because after some random clotting, mine stopped and I'm happy about that. I just dont want to be sick to my stomach all the time you know?
I've been using this method of BC for three months now. This past Tuesday I decided I had enough of the side effects and took off my patch. First and foremost, I experienced a large and uncomfortable amount of migraines that felt so intense I couldn't concentrate on anything. Also, my appetite has been affected greatly. Initially I was super hungry all the time. Then I got to a point where my stomach hurt so much; felt hungry and felt full. Some nausea here and there as well. The MAIN reason I am deciding to no longer use this method is because I have only had 6 days inbetween my periods where I don't have my period. And even then I have dry blood spotting. My periods last 12-14 days sometimes longer and I'm getting used to ALWAYS having my period and getting a break of about 5 days in between. It's exhausting. Mentally and physically. It really did not do my body any good.
I'm in my first week with the patch and haven't had any issues or side effects. I know is too soon but with the pills I had reactions right away. So far I feel like I have nothing on, my moods are okay and no abnormal hunger. Will update if something changes.
I am about to go on my third month! I do experience mild headaches more often than normal, nothing too serious. Nausea is definitely there, I HAVE to eat breakfast, if i don't by the time i eat lunch I will no longer have an appetite but still vomit. Emotions have been off the chart!!! My only moods are annoyed, mad or crying. Only bad thing i can say about the patch is my emotions are everywhere. I definitely have been more irritable 24/7 , I am very snappy to even the smallest of things. Was NEVER like this before the patch.
I was only on Xulane for a week and a half because I didn't like the shot and often forgot to take the pill, but in that week I experienced a serious change in my mood. I was very depressed and didn't even want to get out of the bed. It got to the point where there was no more "sticking it out" and I took it off. I started to feel better soon after.
I have been on the patch for 1 week now, don't have anything bad to say so far. my side effects consist of excessive hunger which I don't like because normally I don't eat that much. Also my period stopped right after 2 days which was nice haha. slightly moody but that's normal considering your body is adjusting to added hormones. Also I like that the patch doesn't come off during showers ect its a lot more sticky then I had thought it would be, Also not a fan that it makes me itchy but that I got over it was only the first few days. overall so far im okay with this birth control considering I haven't taken any since age 16 and im 24 now. If after a couple weeks I don't like it im going to get something different. plus side to this birth control u can take it off anytime if you don't like it unlike implanted IUDS.
I've been using the xulane patch for two years now. Easy to remember to put it on and it sticks very well. If it does ever fall which has happened once usually just slap another right on. It's controlled my acne very well, the only time I get any is the week before the 4th week due to period coming in. I love how you can control whether you want to get a period or not by leaving the fourth patch on. Cons are I have lack of sexual desire I feel depressed most times and I've lost more weight probably due to the depression. In high school I was about 130 I'm now at 110.
I have to agree that Ortho evra was way better.I recently switched to the pills because of the irregular period and abdominal pain I was having with the xulane patch, but I'm forgetting to take them sometimes,so I might switch back to Xulane.
Trust this review to be an honest one. There are pros and cons to the Xulane patch. The first month on it I had the worst symptoms while my body was adjusting. Mind you I use the patch for a medical condition (bicornuate uterus.) I was extremely ancious and had terrible mood swings. I also spotted, but by the second month all of that stopped. I started to feel more calm and completely normal on the patch. My debilitating cramps used to get in the way, but now I can go to school and do military PT at my local Army recruiting office and weightlifting class with no problems. It's made life so much easier for me while also making my period shorter and lighter. I've gained some weight but that's good for me. It's easy to change it every week and it doesn't fall off. I recommend it, but prepare yourself for the first month because when your body is adjusting it will be hell.
I've been on Xulane for a year now. Before I was on it and before I had my daughter I was on the Ortho Evra patch and I LOVED it. Over the last few months on Xulane I've noticed some side effects I don't like. I spot often between periods, have been having abdominal pains, I'm not sure if it's the reason my anxiety was through the roof a couple months ago but I had bad anxiety attacks, I've gained a little weight and I just feel this brand is nothing compared to the patch I was on 2 1/2 years ago.
I am currently on my fourth patch. I am using the patch continuously as per my MD, so I will not get my period for three months. So far I love this method. I do not trust myself to take a pill everyday and I am unable to get an IUD, which I preferred, so the patch seemed the next best method. I have no nausea, headaches, mood swings, weight gain, or loss of sex drive. The only side effect I've experienced is itching where I place the patch and tender swollen breasts. I do not mind my breath being swollen as I am small chested and I normally don't notice tenderness until I take my bra off. Neither of these side effects are so severe that I would consider changing methods. I have noticed that the patch starts to come off in the shower, but once I am out it sticks right back where it should be.
I started the patch a few weeks ago after my doctor suggested it for me when I explained to her that I stopped taking the pill a few months back, due to depression, and was looking for other options. I love the patch so far, especially compared to the pill! I haven't had any major mood swings yet, not nearly as many menstrual migraines, and sprisingly my acne hasn't been acting up as much. It has also helped my period to get on a better set schedule. I just have been experiencing some itchiness under my patch and tender / swollen breasts, which is all to be expected during the first few weeks of the patch. I would definitely recommend this patch to someone who doesn't like to keep track of the pill or hates shots like i do. Obviously everyone's body will react differently, but it's been great so far for me!
I have been on the patch for a full two months. I have experienced terrible acne that initiated very soon after starting it. I've tried many different remedies and facial washes, but the acne refuses to clear up. I've noticed myself feeling extremely groggy/ foggy-headed. I haven't felt like myself since I've started it, and my moods have been affected. My appetite has increased significantly. I've also experienced itchiness around the patch as well as it coming off when swimming. My sister was on the patch and developed a blood clot at only 19 years old. I wouldn't recommend this product.
Just last week I was diagnosed with DVT on my leg and it also travelled to both side of my lungs . I wish I could have read the reviews that is on this product to detect the side effects sooner . I been on Xulane for about 3 months now . It was convenient and easy to use . The boobs hurting and emotional was my side effects . Last week my lower back started to hurt then my left leg started to swell . Next thing I landed in ER with DVT . This product almost toke my life ! Again , I wish I would have read the side effects and paid attention to the signs . If you are feeling dizziness or swing stars . You are in pre stage of blood clot . Get yourself check .
I have been on this patch only for 1 week and 2 days and I have experienced extreme nausea, mood swings and low tolerance for my daughter AND today awful chest pains. I've taken it off and am going to try the thing that they put in your arm
I have been on Xulane for 2-3 years. I have not experienced any issues or side effects. The Patch is convenient since it is changed only once a week. In my experience, however, the Patch has come off almost everytime I've gone swimming at the pool or beach. It has not come off completely off during showers or baths (sometimes corners come up and need to be reapplied). Would highly recommend if the sticky side is improved.
I have been taking the Xulane patch for about 5 mo the now. I put it on every Sunday with no issue. It even comes with little stickers for the patches and your calendar so you can keep track when your period week is. I have a hard time remembering pills and I don't do shots. I'm off on Sundays and 98% of the time I remember to change it if not it's monday when I remember but I keep it in my bathroom to help remember. However, my first couple weeks from not ever being on birth control for almost 8 years was a little intense. I had breast tenderness for about 2-3 weeks but it went away and no issues since. Every now and them the patch spot will itch, and I'm like what the heck; ohhh it's the patch. But overall nothing serious. My period is about 5-7 days but on the 5th day it's light then nothing then day 7 I bleed again. I have not gained any weight. I am about 120-122 lbs 5'3” and I'm not very active. No real case of acne. Some pimples here or there but nothing crazy. And I don't always wash my face. I'm actually very please with the patch. Ppl have complained about it not sticking. I really haven't had an issue. I've even been swimming and it started to come off but then it stuck
I am On my fifth week of The patch. Ever since i have Been taking it, i have Been uncontrollably nauseous. Sometimes i will Lash out and be crazy around the people around me and treat everyone like crap. It's almost like i cant Contain or stop it. Other times I'll just laugh so hard for no reason. When i took My patch off for my period, i had MAJOR abdominal pain. So badly that i couldnt Move. It wouldn't stop. It was also in my lower back. The cramps were unbearable and i missed Like 4 days of work. I've also noticed i have Trouble using the bathroom and I've been having awful UTIs since i started. Antibiotics don't seem to help. Seriously this patch has ruined my life. I have No hope sometimes. I have absolutely horrid depression. F this patch
I recently started using the patch because I knew the pill wasn't going to cut it for me after having a baby. When I was on the pill, I had gotten nausea and horrible cramps. I stopped taking the pill because of weight gain but ended up getting pregnant after getting off of it. The patch has given me no side effect from the get go and I absolutely love it! I recommend the patch!
I have been on the patch for about 5 years now. I have not had any side effects. I know when my period is coming and what day it should arrive. It's so convenient! I have even encouraged my friends to get it, and they all love it too. I do not have a problem with it staying on, as long as I don't go swimming for 3 hours+. Everyone has different side effects, and some of us get none! So don't be afraid to try this! If you are extremely forgetful about taking the pill, this is the bc for you.
Sometimes bad itchiness at the site but i scratch around the patch and try to ignore it and While wearing the third patch my breast got swollen and tender. I'm in the fifth week now and they're still tender I will get a new bra and see if it goes away before I completely give up on the patch.
I was on the patch for about 3 years. It gave me regular periods i knew exactly what day it was coming and what day it was ending. My boyfriend finishes inside everytime and i have never had a pregnancy scare. No acne, no nausea, no blood clots, no cramps. I did experience itchyness around the patch for the first couple of months but i got used to it and i dont feel it anymore. I wear it on my buttcheek so it would collect alot of lint but I didn't pick at it or else the patch would become loose. It worked fine for me! And i even took a break after the first year for a couple of months and went back on and it worked fine.
I was on the patch for just barely 2 months. I ended up with multiple pulmonary embolism on both of my lower lobes. I would not recommend this patch at all.
I have been on Xulane for over two years, and I have never had any issues with it. I never had blood clots, mood swings or nausea. Only thing is I have sensitive skin and if I put clothes on too soon after I get out of the shower and not let it completely dry, my skin will get a little red and itchy, but will go away after I let it breathe. I was bad at remembering a pill every day, and I don't trust the implant or depo, so this was an amazing alternative.
How has not only the box not warned me about the increase of BLOOD CLOTS while using this product but neither did my doctor? Recently just got released from the hospital and had been told the reason I now have a large clot within my left leg and many clots within BOTH LUNGS is due to my birth control patch(research before you use this product) other birth controls are MUCH SAFER. This patch almost took my life. I'm lucky to be alive. Birth control such as the patch and even the ring are the main causes for DVT and pulmonary embolisms. DONT GET THIS PRODUCT.
Been on Xulane for about 3 months now. I love it! Super easy to remember and it has helped my period so much! I had terrible periods and now I'm so much better! I had a slight change in appetite , loss of appetite but after the first week that problem went awat. It also seems to have helped with my acne. & I haven't got pregnant so that's good too.
Honestly after reading the reviews for this birth control I was pretty afraid on getting on but I did anyways so far ive had really no side effects other than sore boobs and feeling sleepy the first week! I've been on the patch for about 3 weeks now!
This is my second time using Xulane. The first time, I placed my patch 10am every Monday and it made me throw up Tuesday mornings but only on the start of a new month. Even tho it wasn't much, I just gave up. This time around I put my patch on around 6pm and I haven't really gotten any side effects. I was just really emotional (which I NEVER am) the day after my first patch. I started the patches three days into my period and didn't use any other protection. (I'm 5'6 & 125lbs if that helps with anything.) My routine is replacing my patches at 6pm every Saturday and on my patch free week, my period comes that Tuesday. I was hoping for bigger boobs lol but its cool, I haven't gotten pregnant so far. I recommend placing them where its not visible (lower abdomen/ upper booty) so you don't get asked any questions.
I could only handle being on this patch for 3 days. From the get go, I had terrible nausea. It would get worse if I didn't eat. Which sucked because I was super hungry and NOTHING sounded good. I would get super hungry and then get acid reflux so bad it would make me sick. I had terrible mood swings. I would cry and laugh all within a few minutes, and i was so irritable. I really wanted this to work for me, and i wanted to give myself time to adjust to it. But the first few days made me so miserable that I just couldn't take it anymore. Definitely would not recommend.
I have blood clots and I have never had blood clots before. Now, I'm averagely build 5'2 and 110lbs, I am healthy etc bs. I started to get welts on my ass on the under side and then blood clots started to form in my fingers, WTH. It put more estrogen into your body than the pills, planned parenthood told me it would do less. I'm annoyed and fustrated my few fingers are swollen and hard to move much.
Has anyone experienced dizziness from this patch?
I started the Xulane patch January 6th (the day my period came on) my period didn't end until the beginning of February. I was bleeding heavy and light on and off. I'm not sure if it was the xulane patch or the fact that I took a plan B on New Years. However, the first day I got on the patch I had a minor headache, next day I felt nauseas and threw up once, and according to my boyfriend I was moody the first week. After the first week, I did not experience any other side effects. Once my period ended in February and later on returned to its normal schedule, xulane has made my periods a lot lighter and I no longer have excruciating cramps. I've been on it for about 3 months now and I love it. I was hoping I'd gain some weight, but I remained the same.
Was on the patch with my ex boyfriend around 2 years ago, after 3-4 months of being on it I began an on going cycle of yeast infections which could only be treated with a regimen of antibiotics which sucked. It also killed my libido. I got off the patch and it took about 5 months for the yeast infections or my body to calm down. Decided to restart the patch as I had just gotten married around october 2017, and noticed I had been going through mood swings and depression, maybe gained 15 lbs as well. Mind you my diet is pretty clean. Me and my husband decided not to continue with the patch so now currently on Nexplanon. When I discontinued the patch, the mood swings and depression subsided as well. Which is always something to be glad about. Would not recommend this
I have been using the patch for a little over a month. My doctor has me on a continuous cycle, so I do not take an off week, in turn I do not have a period. I have had a few light headaches, nothing that would keep me from performing daily tasks. I am on my 5th patch, and have had 3 headaches during that time. I did notice some mood changes at first (highly emotional) but it seems to be leveling out now. My current patch got very slightly pulled back, so I am wearing a bandaid over it. I've noticed if I put it on my shoulder it stays on best. Love it so far!
The patch works great to stop your period. Works within a few hours. But it causes a bad rash within 30 mins on me and it itches so bad. I change spots constantly and i have to use a bandaid to keep it in place bc it isnt sticky. Worst but best product ever. If they would fix that part of it i would give it 10 stars
I've been taking Xulane for 6-7 months. My periods are heavy and light throughout the day so that gets aggravating. I gained 15 pounds but I don't really have serious side effects..it's honestly my favorite birth control.
Worst Patch Ever! My moods are stable yes! I'll give it that... There are two major problems I keep on facing. One being...no matter how much I scrub or put anything on it. It always leaves a nice big square on me from the adhesive. Then the patxh never wants to stay on. Its always falling off reguardless of where I put it. It doesn't matter how active I am. This product is defective and stressful. I have to worry if my patxh is on 24/7. Worst pach ever....
I've been on Xulane for about 7 months now. In the beginning I loved it- you only had to put it on once a week for three weeks and the fourth week you didn't put one on bc that's usually when you get your period. It made my period short (4 days), but I still had a heavy flow. Last but not least, I never got pregnant. Now onto the cons- the patch would always have long to it and it didn't always stay sticky. Four months on the patch I started to get a nasty, itchy, scaly rash from the patch because of the adhesive. I still used it anyways bc it was better than taking a pill every day. Fast forward to six months, I notice some vaginal dryness, definitely a mood killer when it came to sex. And the final blower was I end up getting a mass amount of acne on my face, it was the worst! All in all idk if I would recommend this birth control to anyone.. this is just my experience and I know birth control affects everyone's body differently. Hopefully my review will help one of you ladies out.
I've used this patch on and off a little over a year, and I'd say it does the job of keeping me protected. I will say that it gave me newer menstrual symptoms over time like: headaches/migraines, acne, increased appetite, nausea, and mood swings. These new symptoms were tolerable, but I was pretty bummed when I started breaking out with acne (which is something I've never had a problem with before). I kept using patch for 3-4 months, and eventually my body balanced itself out. The symptoms became milder too. I can't say this does the same for everybody, but I think it generally does an okay job. It's worth a try!
I was put on Xulane by my gynecologist to prevent my body from continuing to develop ovarian cysts. The first two weeks on the patch were terrible. I was constantly nauseous, in and out of the bathroom with diarrhea, and lost a lot of weight very quickly. After those two weeks passed, everything was fine. I like the patch because it is a weekly replacement instead of a daily pill. Overall, it has been very effective.
After trying close to 10 different pills over the years and having terrrible break through bleeding on everyone (having my period for a month+) and feeling as if I was always bleeding my dr switched me to Xulane and my experience this far has been awesome! No breakthrough bleeding thank god! I have also not experienced any side effects. I would definitely recommend!
After reading the reviews of the patch I was afraid of using it. I am on day 5 of the patch and I love it so far. First 2 days I had minor headaches in the evening and was emotional. Now that has all stopped. I feel more balanced. The patch edges tend to come up but I read to put a waterproof tegaderm patch over it to protect it. I'm 200lbs and was previously not on any birth control. Luckily I haven't experienced any bad side effects. I will update after a full months use. 1/10/18 KG
I have never tried a different form of birth control but cannot remember to take a pill so I started out with the patch. I started the patch because I was having severe stomach pains while on my period and would often get sick to my stomach, and the patch has almost completely stopped this issue. I am an actively involved with several sports and have been on the patch for almost a year. The patch has only fallen off twice both times when a girl ripped it off me. The first month I had mood swings and would cry very often but those are gone now, I've had ocasional calf cramps in my sleep, gained a little weight and little itchiness near the application sight. Both the mood swings and the cramps stopped after the first couple months. It's helped clear up my skin and now I'm a much more positive person then I have been in the past. I would highly recommend this product to anyone
I was on this patch for six months and my experience was lovely at first. It was great only having to remember to change a patch once a week instead of taking a pill everyday. After about month 4 I noticed frequent and intense headaches. Around that same time, I developed terrible anxiety. Headaches and anxiety are two most common side effects for this patch. Had it not been for AWFUL anxiety and debilitating headaches, I would still be on this patch for the convenience. I would not recommend anyone use this patch not only from my personal experience but from all the other awful reviews on this patch. It's realy unfortunate this is the ONLY patch on the market but I'd much rather take a pill everyday than suffer from anxiety and constant headaches.
I love this patch! It is a total game changer. I could never remember to take my pill and this totally takes that issue away. I have a lot more energy, more positive attitude, lost some weight, my face cleared up and I'm protected. The first month however, I spotted most of the month just because my body was getting to used to it. If you can get past the first month, you won't ever want to stop using it!
I waited until I have had it for a year in order to feel that I am giving a fair review. Honestly, this has been extremely easy to use and effective. I swam daily from May to October without any issues. The skin may itch from time to time but it really comes down to you, the user, to know not to aggravate the itching and it would go away on it own pretty quickly. I am usually so busy doing stuff that I don't have time to scratch. I am in my mid 30s and so far, no weight gain, no mood changes and no appetite changes. I am happy with Xulane.
I switched from the nexplanon to this because as I was coming off my third year of the arm implant my periods became really unpredictable. My first month on the patch was good but now I'm experiencing headaches literally everyday and I'm nauseous all the time. I thought I was going crazy at first but after reading the reviews and seeing that I'm not the only one I feel so much better now. I'm making the decision to stop using the patch once and for all.
Love it! Curves my appetite. Had a few break outs. Makes me super positive all the time. I would recommend it to anyone who suffers from depression or weight gain from birth control.
It's easy to remember because you change it weekly. It Stays on despite soap and lotion although I have not gone in a pool or hot tub yet. I have been feeling a ton of tingling numbness especially right after I change the patch to a new patch. My stomach is sensitive to the touch (as well as my nipples) but that's all. I have had a first time in my life paralyzing leg cramp while I slept but I am not sure if it's related. Dizzy a lot like I'm on the weightless part of a rollercoaster. It's been strange adjusting to but I'm hoping since I haven't even been using it for a month the side effects will taper, if not I'm switching for sure!
I had never taken any form of medicinal birth control & when I started the patch it was interrupting my current cycle. I suffer from anxiety & depression, so both pretty negative emotions that I experienced high levels of compared to sex drive & happiness. The patch really elevated my positive emotions, making it easier to express myself in a healthy manor. As for contraception, it's most certainly done it's job. Due to interrupting my current cycle, I experienced mild cramping & occasional spotting (3 times, 1-2 blots.) In the first week or so I had small headaches, 2 acne breakouts (2 pimples, I have little to none) & mood swings (minor). However, after about 2 weeks everything was resolved. My recommendation to anyone is to make sure you apply rubbing alcohol to your skin before application & that you should apply the patch just 1-2 inches above the muscle on your arm to avoid excessive movement. I have been on this for over a year & I love it.
I just started on this patch a few months ago and it was the worst decision I've ever made! I switch from the pill to the patch because I was always forgetting to take the pill, thinking this would make my life so much easier WRONG!!! The first thing that I noticed was that my breast would hurt all the time I couldn't even stand touching them because it was the worst pain ever! Secondly I was having horrible mood swings blowing up for no reason, then the headaches nonstop all day ever day . Also feeling nauseous and wanting to throw up I even thought I was pregnant . Lastly I would get my period sometimes even TWICE in one month and super painful cramps! I personally wouldn't suggest taking this method of birth control .
Absolutely terrible. Started getting terrible anxiety, a few panic attacks after the first week. Boobs hurt so so so bad all the time. Headaches almost everyday, somedays are worse, but the bad days are REALLY bad. Bad cramps, nausea, migraines, anxiety: not the birth control for me. Only had it on for a month, and i took it off immediately after I realized that this patch is what is causing me all of these problems.
I have been on this patch since 2011. So 6 years (almost 7) and this current year has messed me up. I am constantly having bleed throughs/spotting for 2-3 weeks of the month, nearly every month. I put it on at the exact same time every week but I'm guessing I'm just getting too used to it. Unfortunately this means I'll have to switch again. (I switched through every pill I could back before 2011 but my body got used to the estrogen level and bled through.) I thought xulane was my blessing but I guess the time is up.
I've been on the Xulane patch for about almost 3 weeks. At first I had some headaches but it went away. The only thing I don't like that the patch makes me feel really itchy every once in a while. But I think it is working out for me. I'm not having any problems with this patch. But I have notice I get full quickly so I'm eating less I guess.
I've been on Xulane for almost a year and I love it. I've not experienced any weight gain, the only side effects I've encountered were thicker discharge, spotting occasionally, and it tends to make my period cramps much worse. But honestly those few things are worth it, period cramps are awful but only last a day. Super easy to apply and keep track of, much easier than the pill. Always recommend!
I've been on the patch for 4 years Straight. This is the best birth control in my opinion. You also always know when your period will start. Only side effect I've experienced was migraines ,but not everyday. A month ago I switched to the pill (Camila)because my doctor recommended me to because this pill only had one Hormone instead of the 2. This pill has me cramping,nauseous, and depressed i am switching back to the patch.
I absolutely love Xulane! I was on the pill (orthotricycline and orthotricyclin lo) and it made me nauseous every day! I was desperate for something quick and easy.. Tried Nexplanon, it broke me out terribly, experienced terrible mood swings, and completely lost my sex drive. Tried Mirena and experienced lots of pain with it, also had an ectopic pregnancy while on it as well. Finally, Xulane.... I LOVE IT!! I feel that I have a winner. Been on it for 2 mos. now and am experiencing no complications!!! NO NAUSEA, NO WEIGHT GAIN, NO MOOD SWINGS, NO ACNE, NOTHING NEGATIVE!!! I am loving it!!??
I love my patch. the first two weeks I had super bad nausea. It's easy to remember. I actually lost weight? I had a bit of a breakout on my forehead and I get cramps a week before my period but that's about it.
I was recommended by my obgyn to try xulane because my stomach was so sensitive to the pill. I put the patch on Sunday, and I woke up the next day with this terrible rash all over the back of my legs and going up the left side of me towards my armpit. At first I thought it was just razor burn or something but then through out the day it got worse and started itching and I began to felt sick and dizzy. My stomach hurt so bad, it felt like I had a rock in my gut. As soon as I got home, the rash was so itchy and so bad, I realized it had to have been from the patch. I ripped it off and told my doctor who suggested I just use Benadryl to get rid of the rash and she would call in a prescription for the pill again. It's been almost a week since I've taken that patch off and I still have a slight rash. Nothing seems to be helping. I will definitely not be taking xulane ever again.
I was on Xulane for 4 months. During that 4 months, I was completely irrational. I had intense mood swings and could often barely formulate a sentence or clear thought. During my intense mood swing sessions, I would go from intense crying and hysteria to laughing like a maniac. I was straight up mean to my boyfriend and had a nonexistent libido. Basically any boyfriend or husbands worst nightmare. I do take into consideration that I am also bi polar and on two different medications to achieve an equilibrium day to day. So Xulanes hormones probably didn't help my cause. I will say it is effective in preventing pregnancy and extremely easy to use.
I started taking this because I'm terrible at remembering to take my pill every day. The convenience is great, but the side effects are unbearable. I've had diarrhea almost nonstop for two months since I started using this. I change my patch on Thursdays, and I spend every Friday and Saturday dealing with terrible nausea and diarrhea so bad I really can't leave the house. I've been on this for two months now, and as soon as my period comes again I'm getting off of it. I just can't handle being sick like this every time I change my patch. The upset stomach has been so bad I've lost 7 pounds in two weeks.
I just started the Xulane patch on Friday (6/16/2017). The first day I noticed a soreness in my right hip area, I thought it may have just been a normal side affect from the patch, as I placed it on my buttocks. I disregarded and continued use. The soreness went away the following day-- everything seemed normal. On 6/18/2017 (2 days later) I noticed shortness of breath and a heaviness on my chest. I decided to take off the patch as these are tell tale signs of a blood clot. Today (6/19/2017) I am still having shortness of breath and a slight pain in the chest area. I am considering going to the doctor. I had these symptoms with the NuvaRing as well, not so much with the pill. I am 25 years old and had my first child a year ago (March 2016). Apparently child birth can increase the risks of blood clots. I have decided to stay away from any birth control contraceptives from here on, its honestly just not worth it anymore.
Started this patch for a second time beginning April and again I have to stop using this patch after less then two months use. My experiance maybe the most unique I have come across. First I lost sexual desire for my partner, developed migrains and when I was still determined to stick out this patch, I have developed an embarssing body ordor that Im fighting to this day, after bathing twice to three times daily with skin irratition from scrubbing so much. You say why would some go through this twice. Well, the first time I thought it was a new herbal formula that caused this reaction when I first tried this patch. I didn't stay on it long then. My partner and I broke up. Now after trying the patch again and getting these same symptoms, I realized its the patch. I have stopped the patch and Im preparing food like someone in the hospital- in a effort to have my body return to it normal body chemistry. For the record I dont use alcohol, smoke any cigarette s or use any drugs and my doctor still can't figure out -why I experienced these problems. If I knew the patch would cause these type of problems for me I, would have seriously ran out the Dr' office when it was recommended. KH
Started using patch due to sensitivity to oral birth control and was very satisfied with Ortho Evra. Switching from Ortho Evra to the new common patch called Xulane was terrible. I developed an allergic reaction to the adhesive leaving me with a rash and constant itching and pain. I can't wait for my period just so I can rip it off. Also my period have been off consistently for the past 8 months late by 2-3 days. Terrible nausea and cramping each new cycle of patches. Patch is flimsy when in contact with water, making you worry with you're in the shower or doing physical activity. Wrinkles, slipping, and pinching happened more often then not causing for a new patch/new start day. Hormones took a sudden hit, increased depression and anxiety. All in all will never take Xulane ever again, next step is Mirena.
I have been having a great experience with the patch. Been on it for 8 months, but this month has been a problem. I started my period Easter Sunday and I'm still bleeding...do the math. I'm spotting now and I'm having cramps all over again. I don't like this at all. I would recommend, but this patch hasn't done nothing for me. Still having long periods (7-9 days). Only thing I did was balance my period. I'm so over this bleeding/spotting thing.
I started off on the pill but remembering to take it everyday was too much. I LOVE this patch!! It is super easy, I just pop it on every Sunday excluding my period week. My period remained normal, just 3 days as usual for me. The only side effect that I have had is the urge to eat! But that isn't so bad. I haven't gained any weight or had any breakouts. My sex drive is still great! It stays on the full 7 days until I remove it. Overall I wish I had found out about the patch in the first place.
This is now my second week on the patch. I have been on the pill off and on for years; I'm TERRIBLE at remembering to take it though, so normally I withdrawal bleed once and then have a normal period a week later. On top of that the pill makes me nauseous. I started the patch the second week of my cycle--but I'm using it all the time (no off week) so the syncing didn't matter to me. I haven't really experienced any side effects other than some slight breast soreness. The first patch I put on my upper forearm but I found that it wrinkled a lot when I moved and caught a lot of lint. I've put the second patch on my upper thigh, below my panty line. Less wrinkling and less lint catching. I haven't experienced an allergy to the adhesive like others have and it didn't hurt more coming off than a normal bandaid.
The first few weeks of xulane were rough, and I didn't know if I would be able to handle it. The nausea, mood swings, etc. really we're taking a toll on me. Additionally I would get a red itchy rash where the patch was. But I decided to wait it out to see if they went away. And I'm very glad I did. After about 5 weeks, The nausea subsided, my mood swings balanced out a bit, the rash I had stopped coming back when I put on new patches, and the benefits of the patch were really noticeable without all the side effects clouding how I felt about it. My bust size did increase (always a perk for B-cuppers like me), I didn't have any weight gain, my face and back always stay clear of acne now, and I don't have to worry about forgetting to take a pill. Just set an alarm for every Thursday in my phone to remind me to change my patch, keep it in a conspicuous place, and relax! No needles no shots, no having something placed in my uterus, just a simple patch, that I am in control of! I recommend rotating between two places on your body in the same spot. Wonderful contraceptive option. I take it for constant suppression for endometriosis and haven't had pain in weeks!
I used to be on Ortho Evra years ago and it was perfect....i recently got back on birth control and found that Xulane was the "new" patch. Terrible! My period went off and I've been spotting and now it's back on again! I've been bleeding/light spotting for 2 and a half weeks! I stopped using it now that my period returned. I also experience terrible cramps an nausea.....I definitely wouldn't recommend this!
I've tried every birth control, so far my favorite is the Copper IUD, it comes with no hormones but turned out I was allergic to the copper. ANYWAYS!!! I definition wouldn't suggest the patch on anybody simply because I don't want anybody going through what I've been going through this past month: Breast hurt sooo bad, I can't even wear a bra. Haven't had a problem with sex but I'm not as interested for sex with my partner like usual. Stomach feels like crap, feel like vomiting and definitely moody...
I have been using this patch for FOUR YEARS. I started when I was 17 after switching from the pill. I absolutely love it. It got rid of my acne, I experienced less cramps, less back pain, no headaches (I used to while using the pill), and no weight gain. My only side effect was I did bleed more. I recommend to all my friends and family.
I started used the Xulane patch about a month ago as a form of contraception and to help make my periods less painful and it was great for the first 3 weeks! No side effects, stayed on well, very thin and easy to hide. The only bad part was where ever I put the patch itched sometimes. It was all good though UNTIL I got my period and it started early. Usually I can use like 2-3 pads in a day and I'm more than okay. I have had to use so many pads and tampons everyday this time. It's insane. I have to change them every hour and a half. I couldn't go to work because I was cramping horribly and i could barely get out of bed. My doctor said my body is just "getting used to it" I don't think you'd like yours to do the same so I wouldn't recommend this form of bc. It didn't help my period(it made it worse) but I'm not pregnant so I guess that's good
The first month was good, no side effects or anything but on the 3rd week of the second month it started getting pretty bad. I started feeling sick, I stated feeling dizzy, headaches and had really bad anxiety. After I removed the patch I started feeling a lot better
I have been taking xulane for 6 months now. I like it because my pharmacy can't switch it at any point because there's only one brand. Going on vacation was great with it- just put a big waterproof bandaid over it and you'll be fine. I've been on many pill brands and the Nuva ring- this is the best by far. Side effects are rated by which week on the patch you are.. I do have a funny taste I my mouth since I started but other symptoms come and go. Mood swings, breast growth and weight gain are my biggest ones. No real complaints other than if the patch does fall off you're s.o.l. For that week because the pharmacy doesn't give replacement patches. Great form of BC!
I started xulane in early May. It is now October and I have recently started experiencing stomach aches and nausea and upset stomach, some discomfort in my upper stomach area. I'm not sure why these side effects are JUST NOW starting, but if it keeps up I will discontinue use. Otherwise, for the first 6 months - no side effects at all. And I haven't gotten pregnant so it's done it's job. I've also experienced some anxiety. Overall, I like the patch. I just need these weird symptoms to go away.
At first I loved the patch! It was so convenient and you would never know what it was. I started the patch in October it is now August. I've been getting sick since December, nausea, headaches, dizziness, anxiety and tons more. I've been getting tests done for months trying to figure out what's wrong with me. After looking up the side effects I've realized I've had every single one and very severely. I took the patch off about 3 weeks ago and have been feeling better but I'm still constantly itchy and swollen where the patch was. This product is very easy but like they say sometimes the easy way out isn't the best. I'm still getting headaches and sometimes anxiety but I'm not nearly as nauseous or dizzy as I used to be. Please be careful with this.
I started using this form of birth control about 5-6 years ago (Ortho Evra/Xulane Patch) Mainly because as a young female my periods literally killed me to the point where I couldn't get up from my bed because my entire body hurt and I would get really weak, my body would turn pale. I never knew when it was coming until I was sick in bed like that and it would last 9+ days. After started Xulane my periods went down to 5 days, I knew exactly when I was getting it, and my periods definitely weren't nearly as heavy as they were before. It's also very very effective of protecting against pregnancy, from the moment I've lost my virginity to getting on this birth control I can proudly say I've never gotten pregnant, miscarriages or anything before and after the patch so it does work. I have noticed many side affects one being mood changes. I'm already a feisty person but Jesus do I feel bad for my partner because it makes me so mad and emotional at any and everything !! Most of the time there's nothing wrong with me at all but I'd be really upset and start crying. I know it has to be the birth control because when I'm experiencing these things I realize my behavior is very off. Another t
I like that it is simple to use and convenient, my only major issue is that my skin itches like crazy where it it placed. I am hoping that in time I will forget the itch or that it will just go away all together.
I have been on this patch for almost a week and a few days out of this week I have experienced headaches and nausea, mostly headaches. Has anyone else experienced this?
I have been taking this contraception for about two years now. I use it to prevent pregnancy of course but I also had irregular periods. I would come on one moth and wouldn't have another period for the next two months. So this patch has corrected my menstrual cycle as well. I have not missed a period since I have been taking it. I love it !
I am having horrible stomach pains for about 2 days after my first cycle while being on the patch, ive been nauseated as well is this common and will it stop or continue
I started using the patch a couple weeks ago, and so far it has been great! The only side effect I'm experiencing is mood swings and a little nausea, but nothing that is unberable. I would recommend this to someone definitely!
I have been using the patch for the three weeks and it has made me sick! I have been throwing up, spotting, headaches, moody, EVERYTHING you could think of! I would not recommend this to anyone because it does not help at all! I use it for menustral cramps but it does not help, I still was in pain. The patch makes me itch so I recently removed it and will not be refilling my monthly prescription.
I find that after starting use when I have sex I'm not able to get as wet as I used to making sex uncomfortable. Only time I previously experienced that was after a miscarriage.
I had the worst allergic reaction. I was covered with hives from head to toe. I had chest pains and I currently still have them after discontinuing use of the patch. My tongue and lips were swollen some point in this experience. I had flu like symptoms. It was an all over ill feeling that I ended up with. One of my legs started to swell as well.
If anyone has insight to the side effects I have experienced with this patch please share. So, I started this a week ago, and by day two of it being on I found myself to be extremely sexually aroused. Not that I am complaining because I had a low libido before xulane, but now I am so easily sexually excitable. If I masturbate, I get the urge to do it again within 10 minutes. My husband is away for military training right now, but he is coming home in ten days. I told him about the increased urge to have sex and he is totally excited. Again, not complaining, but has anyone else had a side effect like this. I can't find any similar reviews anywhere online.
Horrible cramping, weight gain, mood swings and I will never take this again!
"This is the best and most convenient birth control method available. I absolutely love the fact that I don't have painful, heavy periods anymore or migraine headaches related to normal hormonal changes. Unfortunately, many women report enormous weight gain weight on Depo. I am very grateful that I did not experience this terrible side effect and am so sorry that some people have. As far as emotional issues are concerned, I am generally crazy at baseline and do not feel as though Depo has exacerbated my emotional instability at all. Overall this birth control is amazing and I'll be sad when I have to stop taking it due to bone mineral density loss. If anyone does decide to use this as a contraceptive method, it's really important to take calcium supplements to preserve your bone density.  As far as sex drive is concerned, I am in a fairly new relationship ( 6 months in) so of course I want to have sex all the time. I'm not sure if this will change once the novelty wears off."
"I had the depo provera and on over about 3 years and I would getting spotting for like 2 weeks with the first shot and then by the second shot no period at all. I did gain weight for sure. But never any depression or anxiety or any other problem. It did decrease my sex drive a little but overall it has been worth it."
"This is by far my favorite birth control  I had it for 4 years I was sad when my doctor made me go off of it ( you can only be on it for a certain amount of years because of bone deterioration) I never had my period or spotting and no mood swings. The only thing that sucked was the weight gain. 15lbs..."
"I would rate this drug 0 out of 10 if possible. Yes it helped with my periods (I didn't have them just a bit of spotting) and I didn't get pregnant! I had my second shot two months ago and I won't be going for a third. I am EXTREMELY moody, depressed, anxious/nervous and I always feel on edge. I have also been getting paranoid about my relationship, has anyone else experienced paranoia on this injection? Definitely do NOT recommend!!!!!"
"Overall 8/10. I give it 10/10 for effectiveness. I am very petite - before the Depo I was 4'11" and 97 lbs (not anorexic, I eat all the time) and my periods were irregular to begin with. I have been on the Depo for about 3 years now and consider myself lucky after reading reviews - I experienced some weight gain (was 110 lbs at max) and a few mood changes. However I started going to a gym 8 months ago and now maintain a good weight at about 105 lbs. I have not had my period in over 2.5 yrs which it's nice not having to deal with it. Only some cramps here and there and some anxiety, but it isn't bad at all and I don't have to worry about whether it's going to work or not. Everybody is different! I only wish birth control was easier for women."
"The Deop-provera Brith control shot is the worst!!! I had taken it seen last year of May 2018. When I got it the first time I was ok, just  myself. The 2nd shot the same, 3rd shot the same  but the 4th shot  - it's change me. I don't feel like myself even my husband knew I wasn't been my self. On Feb 2 when I got my 4th shot the first 2 weeks I was fine till out of no where. I felt different I was crying for no reason. I was super sacred what was going on because I never felt like this before. I was crying to mom because I didn't know what was happen even my mom didn't know. So  I was talking to my sister and cousin about what going on. I told them I felt so down, I don't feel like me. They all said "is it the birth control"  and if it is after those 3 months it would be over. I been going to church and I'm praying to god that I get back to normal self again. Because all these side effects is not like me. I get it every women is different. A lot of people ask why don't you try the pill or other things. Nope, no I would never take depo again."
"The Depo shot has been very effective. I have only been on it for 3 months now and I have experienced weight gain - a lot. I am 18, 5'6 and when I was first on the shot I was 135 pounds. Now I'm 148 to 150 at the end of the day. It's really sad for me. I was a varsity swimmer and have been lean most of my life. Some other side effects I have is bad anxiety, depression, being exhausted all the time and loss of interest."
"Depo provera was awful. I gained over 35 pounds. I couldn't stop eating. I was extremely depressed. I couldn't even drive over a bridge without getting anxiety. Unfortunately, it took over a year for me until it completely was out of my system. I feel like I wasted almost two years of my life on that stuff. I was also a slave to going to the doctor every couple of months. This thing NEEDS to be off the market and I'm glad people are starting to come to their senses about Depo-provera. I do NOT RECOMMEND."
"I did the depo shots for about a year and a half when I was 18. When I first started then I gained maybe 5 pounds in the first 6 months. After a year it became 10, and following those 10 the weight just kept packing on, even after I discontinued the shots. I gained a total of 90 POUNDS. I ate the same as I always had and exercised regularly but the weight came suddenly and didn't stop. I'm not pregnant but it did make me lose my sex drive and caused me to gain a crazy amount of weight. DON'T DO IT. I'm 22 now and had to have weight loss surgery to help me lose the near 100 pounds gained."
"It did what it was supposed to which is stop my periods and prevent pregnancy, but it gave me some pretty bad side effects. I have only had 3 shots so far and I am definitely ending it and going to try an IUD.  1. Weight gain, I gained 15lbs even though I workout every day and I am pretty good about eating. I have been craving chocolate and ice cream a lot but this wasn't a huge deal to me though. 2. My acne has gotten worse. I went on accutane 4 years ago and I didn't break out til I started this birth control definitely sucks to have my acne back. 3. Constant headaches. 4. Dizziness. 5. Memory loss. This is the reason I am changing birth controls. I can't remember anything. I work at a small restaurant and I used to be able to remember a table with 4 peoples orders and now I can't even remember drinks. I can't stay focused. I constantly feel emotionless. I feel like I am not all there. What sucks the most is I have to wait until it expires so feel better again."
"I got the shot once and it was TERRIBLE. I experienced crazy depression and mood swings, as well as acne that refused to go away no matter what I did. It was effective at birth control, but I wouldn't wish these side effects on my worst enemy."
"My experience with this shot has been nothing but good, with the exception of irregular spotting for the first couple months; however, after that I was period free. This shot has NEVER made me depressed or anxious the women that are experiencing these feeling maybe  prone to these symptoms. I suggest you go to a psychologist if you encounter these feeling during the shot. Lastly I have been on this shot for 2 years and have not gained weight. Ladies if you are gaining weightprobably you should probably try  to eat healthy and work out, if all else fail go back to the Doctor for advise."
"I got on the Depo shot January 2016. I gained 20 pounds my first couple of months, but that was in combination with the fact it was my freshmen year of college & I ate a lot of fried food. For the first year everything was great- no periods at all! I got on depo because my body rejected contraceptive pills because of the estrogen levels. In February 2017 I had a ruptured ovarian cyst. I didn't know they could hurt that bad! For the first 24 hours with the severe pain it was so bad on my right side I thought it was my appendix! But then I bled and yeah. Then March 2018 I got diagnosed with 3 more ovarian cysts, one being 10cm, so I had to get it surgically removed. I also get spotting every week before my depo shot is due. Overall, if you really don't want to get pregnant, the shot is great because I never have to worry about remembering a pill & it is SUPER effective!!!! But it has caused a lot of problems with my ovaries & my OBGYN wants me off of it this year & on something else"
"So I got on the depo shot on the summer of 2017 and ended it in December 2018. I was suppose to go back for my shot but decided not to . When I first got it was great the thought of not having to deal with a period excited me . I spotted for a week then it went away, so I was like okay this is great since I've always had heavy periods . WRONG !! Acne bumps started on my thighs at first I thought I was allergic to my body wash so I switched body wash which helped a bit . But I noticed every time I was up for a shot my acne would clear up . Then in June 2018 I started spotting I've  been on my period since then it's January 2019!!! Now. I hate it !!! So what sex life ? None because I've been on my period !!!! Plus side I didn't gain weight it actually helped me loose weight while I was on it. It just didn't work out for me ."
"Avoid this form of birth control! It made me gain 30 pounds, worsened my mood, and gave me severe abdominal cramps. Now that I have my period back, I cramp 3 weeks out of every month, as opposed to 1 week a month before starting Depo. Try any other form of birth control except the shot!"
"The Depo shot is the worse birth control anyone can take. DO NOT TAKE!!!! When I first got my shot I immediately started feeling sick and was in and out of the hospital for two weeks due to throwing up everything I ate and not being able to function. I wish someone would've told me about the shot. However, it didn't make me bleed for months like it does a lot of girls but the feeling that they shot caused me and the depression. I wouldn't wish it on my worse enemy. Do yourself a favor and chose a different form of birth control PLEASE."
"Please avoid this medication. I had one injection. Which lead to 1 year of bleeding constantly. I became iron  deficient. After the bleeding finally finished I got really sore swollen breasts and breast milk. I went back to the Doctor. I finally decided that I wanted a baby. My first ended in a miscarriage. I feel this was because of this medication and what it did to my body. The worst thing is that you have to wait for this horrible medication to run it's course. If you have a bad side effect the doctors can't help you."
"I had 5 shots in total of the Depo. After my first shot I had no bleeding, no cramping, I was in bliss. After my third shot I experienced some random bleeding and also bleeding with sex. Before during or after. It wasn't every time but it was enough to cause concern. After my 4th shot I noticed my anxiety skyrocket. I started think everything was wrong with me. Sort of being like a hypochondriac. I had a lot of joint pain and breast tenderness to the point I was thinking I might have breast cancer (I'm 19). I had periods after sex that lasted up to 2 weeks. After that happened I decided to stop the depo and haven't gotten on a new birth control because I am worried about what's really going on with my body.  I've only been off the depo for 3 weeks but have heard it can take up to 8 months for you body to get back to normal. It prevents pregnancy but I do not recommend due to the side effects."
"Absolutely hate it..I took the birth control shot have gained so much weight and can't loose my baby weight...I feel pregnant and super moody, literally have all the side effects weight gain , headaches, tierdness, etc.  Super moody so now  me and my husband are having more issues because of my hormones. Anyways I'm changing birth control method next month I'm considering IUD hormone free. I want to feel myself and birth control shot is by far the worst  I have tried."
"The shot does what it supposed to do which is preventing pregnancy but the side effects are horrible. When I got my first shot 8 weeks after I had my first born my dr said it's a good one and I probably won't bleed at all but I ended up bleeding for the whole 3 months that I was on it so I decided to get off it. I experienced really bad cramps, my joints were hurting, my hair started falling out, I kept finding pimples on random spots all over my body especially the back of my neck, my depression and anxiety got really bad to the point where I became suicidal very moody starting fights with my partner and didn't want to leave the house at all. And it sure does make you Hungry sometimes HANGRY. When I was on it I worked out 4-5 times a week hoping that the baby fat will slowly go but didn't do anything you either put on weight or stay the same weight which was frustrating. It does work but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone :("
"I've been on the depo shot for 4 years now, never had a single problem with it! I bled for about two months straight and toughed it out, and then they went away completely! The only single time I ever spot a little bit, is if I'm really late on my shot. My sex drive is perfect, and I've tried to gain weight for years and still have only gained 10 lbs in 4 years of being on it! I was told by my cardiologist that I shouldn't have another child or we will both likely die, and this is the most effective birth control I've ever had! Never had a scare, or a worry! I love it!!"
"I recommend no one ever tries this.  I had my first injection and felt fine for 3 month ( at least I thought I did).  After my second injection felt completely different. Since having my second injection I don't feel like the same person I have had 4 panic attacks and am suffering with BAD anxiety. I am constantly worrying about my health and diagnosing myself with all sorts all side affects of the injection. I feel like a severe hypochondriac at the moment. Not only has it messed with my mental health making me constantly worried anxious and stressed it has caused me to get cystic acne 2 weeks into my second injection I saw 3 spots appear on my face ( I've never ever had spots in my life) how wrong was that causing them to get bigger and painful,  The more the injection wears off the smaller they seem to get. I have not yet been to my GP about my problem yet as I want to let it wear out of my body and pray I get back to my normal self and my skin gets better- DO NOT GET IT"
"I abhor the depo shot! I've been on it for a little over 2 years and it has been awful for my sex drive. I've been on a bunch of different birth controls in the past and I've NEVER experienced such a complete and total lack of sex drive. I'd much rather sleep than "do it". For 24 years old, that's just sad. It's ruined my relationship. I've gained more than 50 pounds despite a very active lifestyle. My acne is worse than ever before. I'm losing hair by the handful in the shower. It used to be that the depo was my only prescription, but now I have a prescription for almost every side effect. I'm so disheartened with this and would never recommend it for anyone."
"I had the depo shot three times. The first one actually did help my awful cramps and I had a normal period, but the second and third shot ruined my skin. I had perfectly clear skin before starting the shot and 2 months in I had very painful cystic acne. I wish I would've never gotten the shot because months later I'm still dealing with the scars when I had perfectly clear skin before."
"Don't use this birth control. I went on birth control for the first time (at 18) and my doctor told me about Depo and I immediately said yes because it seemed amazing. One shot every 3 months? No forgetting a pill? The first 3 months I had a high sex drive and I starting losing weight, I was at 107 (I'm 5'3)! By the next shot I was at 130-140 and my sex drive had decreased immensely and I was also very irritable. I also didn't mention that the first shot I was bleeding irregularly and by the second shot I stopped bleeding all together. I don't think this medication should even be legal."
"I am due for my second shot this week and will NOT be getting it. I chose this BC due to its convenience and ability to stop my period. I'm 21 and have found depo to be extremely affective in the aspect that I am not pregnant. I WAS an extremely outgoing and happy 21 year old with absolutely no anxiety or depression before starting this BC. The depo shot has absolutely wrecked me as a person. I have experienced extreme anxiety attacks weekly and my mood has never been worse. I have become extremely unmotivated and sad at all times. This BC has caused so many mental and emotional breakdowns and is honestly ruining my life. I have no inclination to do anything anymore (I was a total social butterfly before) and these emotional episodes have even caused suicidal thoughts that I have never even been close to experiencing.  I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND THIS METHOD OF BIRTH CONTROL. I will be switching to a nonhormal IUD option and pray to god I start feeling like myself again soon."
"Oh my goodness, I got such bad eczema as a result of the depo shot. It's been 3 months since my last shot and I'm never using it again. I started using it last year October. The side effects were awful: trouble sleeping, hair loss to the point where I had to shave my hair, eczema got so bad I was always scratching and doctors cream made it worse my skin felt like it's on fire, bad mood swings and dark thoughts, I became overly sensitive, short term memory loss, headaches, felt so much pain wearing high heels (probably the bone loss side effect), dry skin, I gained a bit of weight too,  the non-stop bleeding for first 3months after the first shot. NEVER GOING ON DEPO AGAIN!"
"If you're looking for something to tell you whether or not to get this shot. This is IT!! You are reading this review for a reason and the reason is that this shot ruins you. It's literally toxic. 3 months ago I was an energetic, excited for life fun loving 20 year old. After about 10 weeks I have experienced every single physical side effect. Extreme dizziness, bleeding, nausea, paranoia, violent thoughts, mental breakdowns, severe anxiety, suicidal thoughts. It changed my entire life upside down. I have never experienced any of the side effects before ever in my life!!!! Do not even risk the chance of this drug working out for you. It should be banned in my opinion. So sickening that actual licensed professionals would willingly prescribe this to women knowing what it ~could~ do to someone's physical and mental state. I have two weeks to go and hope I start to feel like myself soon after that but man don't even mess with this toxic drug. Just remember once it has been injected you can't get it out!!!"
"Worst experience of my life, be SCARED of this drug!!!! I got one injection and slowly fell into a deep depression. 2 weeks before my second shot I was hit with every possible side effect. I quit my job, and had to seek help to become myself again. This drug is too good to be true, and not worth risking these side effects. It works great for some but if you are looking into Depo because of convenience like I did, it is NOT worth it. I have suffered from depression, anxiety, nausea, extreme dizziness, loss of appetite, prolonged periods, and many more. Please save yourself the trouble and don't even try it."
"Horrible experience; I received my 1st shot in May to prepare for fibroid removal surgery in July, have bled since May and got my 2nd shot a few weeks ago for BC and to assist with additional fibroid growth. My dr never explained the bleeding on these shots could continue for years, and I will NOT be getting another one."
"""I have been on the depo for about a year, and I was told by my gyno that my bleeding should end by my 3rd or 4th shot. She didn't even tell me I would bleed in the first place. 
I have been bleeding nonstop since I started with the occasional day in between or even an hour. I have RUINED all my period underwear. I have ruined nice underwear because it picks and chooses when to bleed. 
My 3rd shot was the worst, as it went from spots to always having a tampon/pad. I plan on discontinuing by the time my full year is up. This was one of the worst mistakes of my life. Killed my sex drive because who wants to have sex when they're constantly bleeding. 
TL;DR: (Too long; didn't read) This is garbage. Don't take it. You'll regret it."""
"Best ever after I had my first baby on July 7 2012 I was on the depo for a few months did not get my period at all, no symptoms at all then when I stop using it and in less than a month I got pregnant with my 2nd baby. After I had my second boy on September 2013 I was on the depo for almost 4 years never got my period except in  the 1st year I did get it for 3 days normally.  Anyway then I stop getting it again since I want it another baby and I got pregnant in a month with my 3rd baby..."
"I have been using Depo for about two years now. I think I have stayed on it this long due to the convenience of it. I never experienced most of the side effects, but I did gain about 5 pounds that will not drop. My period lasted for almost a month when I first got the shot, but then went away completely. That is a huge bonus for me since I had extremely heavy, long, and painful periods. For me the depression and anxiety was definitely the worst part of it. I do believe circumstances played a part, but some of it was certainly due to hormone imbalance. I have experienced these side effects on and off for the duration of my use. I am looking to get off it now because of the threat of loss of bone density. I am at my two year mark. However, I do think if that was not a problem I would stay on it."
"I was put on this for birth control over 20 years ago.  Now I been off it for 15 years my body has not recovered . I have pituitary tumor in my head and no period at all and it sucks if want ever have a baby this is not for u ..."
"I've been on this birth control for about a year now. I used to have extremely painful periods, the cramps were awful. I would get so nauseous on my period as well. When I first got on the shot I didn't have my period for 2 months, it was great but the 3rd month I was bleeding lightly. After the first shot I stopped getting my period. The pros about this birth control is that is it very effective. I've been having unprotected sex without pull out ever since I've been on it and never got pregnant. I don't recommend having unprotected sex but that's just how I prefer to do it, and we are in a long term exclusive relationship. It also completely eliminated my painful cramps and I haven't been getting any period symptoms at all. The cons about this birth control is that you will gain weight. I always struggled with my weight ever since I was a child so it was a no brainer that I would gain weight. Before the depo shot I weighed around 145 pounds and now I'm 160 pounds. This birth control will make you HUNGRY."
"I started depo when I was 18 I was on it for 3 ½ years it did it's job, I didn't get pregnant. However I noticed my hair became really brittle and thin, I had increased anxiety and experienced a lot of weight loss. I took a break for 2 years and half way through the second year I got pregnant with my first child. I decided to resume with the depo after my pregnancy because I didn't want to get pregnant immediately after having my first child. I'm currently on it and have decided to discontinue it all together because symptoms have worsened. I have extremely achy bones in my back and knee joints, my hair is still brittle and I have extremely painful periods now. I consulted with my doctor and even she recommend not to use depo as a long-term contraceptive. I would like to say good things about depo but it's not good for your health or your bones and joints in the long run."
"Yes it keeps away the babies but the side effects are terrible. I was fine the first 6 months then  I would bleed up to 2 months, heavy everyday. It eventually just stopped. A couple months ago I started living EVERYDAY with horrible anxiety & panic attacks. I've checked myself into the ER about 8 times, just to find out I am totally fine. I never, ever used to deal with anxiety. I have a 15 month old son and my anxiety has stopped me from taking him places, because of fear of me falling over if I had an anxiety attack. Coming up our stairs triggers my anxiety. I do believe I have slipped into depression being that I'm scared to go anywhere. My shot will be ending at the end of this month and I'm literally praying I'm back to my self. This is NOT ME. I have always been a fun, strong minded female, and now I'm too scared to even take my son to the park. This depo shot had mentally & emotionally messed me up. I will be done with all birth controls after the DEPO experience."
"Honestly, I expected a lot worse with this shot. It's pretty convenient. I understand a lot of people hate taking hormones and it doesn't work well for them, but I've actually had an okay experience. No cramping AT ALL. For the first few shots I bled for weeks at a time but it was so light I didn't need a pad. Now I have no periods. No mood swings either. My only complaint is odd joint pain every so often and I've gained 20 pounds since starting the shot! But honestly, Depo does what it is supposed to do."
"Got the Depo shot starting at 16, had it until just this past either Nov17'. Loved it! NO period at all! Once in a RARE blue moon I'd get a random "OW CRAMP" for a hot 2 seconds then be fine again. No weight gain or worse acne, no change in moods. Only reason switched to the implant was cause my doc (same doc I've had since 16) advised to since my bones already aren't so great,& it's been shown that Depo can(like all medicines "can" have adverse reactions) make joint pain & "bone pain" more problematic. I'm almost 29 now, have had Nexplanon since the switch (Oct/Nov17') & I'm already wanting to go back to my good ol depo! Now see my cousin on the other hand won't go near depo ever again, says she felt like it "literally made" her go/feel crazy. To each their own, just like not everyone in the world has anxiety like I do, this medicine won't be for all! Just do as much research as you can &decide for yourself."
"First time ever trying any type of birth control. I made a mistake of not doing research before getting the depo shot. While it is a convenient drug, it gave me a lot of side effects. It led me to depression and anxiety, which are two things I never felt before taking it. It also gave me night sweats, mood swings, and low libido. There were so many days where I felt so empty and dead inside. I hate the depo shot so much. Till this day, I still have depression, anxiety, low libido, and mood swings. Depo shot doesn't work for everyone, and it's going to stay in your system for a long time."
"Depo has been very good to me. My skin actually clears up when I'm on Depo and I my weight stays constant or I even lose a bit. I went from size 38 to 32 and now I'm on 34. I used the pill (triphasil) once because I wanted a regular period but the nausea and mood swings that came with that weren't pleasant at all."
"This drug is good for preventing pregnancy. But the side effects are TERRIBLE. I'm currently on my second shot, almost a month in. My first shot, I was moody as hell. Also had irregular spotting. I had even worse cramps than I had on my period before I got the shot. Pamprin and midol didn't even help. The second shot gives me IBS symptoms and depression. It's like certain foods trigger diarrhea and gas and bloating CONSTANTLY. But before I had no problem with this. I'm convinced it's the hormones. Makes it difficult to get wet too. My sex drive is high as it's always been but I just can't get wet and sex is painful. I'm not getting another shot. Can't wait for the 13 weeks to be over!!"
"This is perfect birth control, in the sense that it makes you so dry while trying to have sex so that sex isn't worth it.  In three months we couldn't have sex & I couldn't do anything on my own. I thought I would be fine with gaining weight because I was working out 2x a day every day, I still put on 10 lbs and probably would have bee  more if I didn't start really dieting but I was always starving. It gave me so many facial/back/chest pimples I was so embarrassed since I always had clear skin. I had my period every other week if not every 4 days. I got the shot in 3/20 & then got Mirena at the end of 6/29 because I could not take it anymore & I would never go back. Mirena turned all my bad side effects around but I will say I have cramping since it is trying to find its place but that is going away but I am completely back to normal now & it has been less than a month! I'd never recommend Depo, I thought I would be fine but it is the worst thing out there, I would have rather chanced it with the pullout method."
"First time I got the shot I bled the whole time. They said once my body got used to it everything would be ok. I took the second shot and bled the whole time. I got off of it and started the pill. The pill was great and was on it for about one and a half years never an issue till the end and I experienced weight gain a little. I decided to try the shot again and it was going good for the first two months then I started having mood swings and depression worsened as well as anxiety which is just fantastic... I will be switching again for sure. Overall don't recommend. It's nice not having to take pills everyday but I'd rather not have to be in a bad mood all the time."
"""I was on this shot from 17-19 years and I overall liked it and recommend it. It was an easy shot every three months and was very effective. I was never worried about getting pregnant and I did not see a change in periods- I mostly didn't get them. As time went on I was having difficultly getting wet, which my doctor said was normal. This was part of the reason I decided to get off of it though. 
I gained a lot of weight at first and its been really hard to lose it. I went from 120 to 145 in about a month with no changes to my diet/exercise. 
As for mood swings, it is hard to tell if this shot had this side affect for me. I was a teenager graduating high school and going off to college so I already had a lot emotions.  
I decided to choose a new one because I was told having this for more than two years is not good for your health. The weight gain and inability to lose weight while on it were also factors."""
"Worst experience on this shot. Constant bleeding, headaches, cramping worse than that of heavy periods, extremely emotional and constant feeling of PMS. Doctors kept saying my body just had to get used to it but definitely wouldn't recommend. They don't tell you enough about the side effects of this drug."
"Well, I have been on the depo for years off an on. This is the longest I have stayed on it from 2009 to current. I have not had any issues besides the weight gain. So the only thing I tell you about that is portion control an exercise. Other than that you may spot every once in a blue moon like when it comes close to your next appointment. Other then that no period. I loved the depo and recommend anyone to try it especially people who hate periods. I have to take a break from it due to my dr states it takes away calcium. So been looking into other alternatives and they all sound scary ughhhhhh hate to change up because I really love the depo...."
"Used the shot for 6 months. The shot stopped my period completely and gave me severe acne on my face, chest , shoulders and back. But it did the job. I have to remove my IUD next month but I wouldn't go back to the shot."
"Hi, I just want everyone to know that it took me 7 months to get pregnant, most cases it says a year, but for me it was 7 . I stopped taking it in July of 2017 and got pregnant February 2018 I was very surprised since a lot of reviews said a year."
"Depo was very effective for birth control. I was on the shot for six years. Never had one period. I did have weight gain. Unfortunately when I did go off the shot. At the age of forty. I never did have a period again. I am very grateful for not having periods. BUT if I had been younger and wanting to have more children. That would have been devastating!"
"Bled for 3 months straight. As soon as I got it, I felt like a 5 whales were sitting on me. NEVER AGAIN!"
"I'm 21 I took my first shot of depo October 2017 and was supposed to go back January 2018 but didn't end up going because I had way too many side effects that I didn't like. The first month was okay and I was told it would stop my period so I thought that's what was happening because I didn't have a period the first month. Around the 5th of the next month I had a period and I assumed it was starting my cycle completely over but the bleeding didn't stop it just went from a regular period to spotting. Sex drive was completely gone, my appetite changed, I had mood swings (I'm just a moody person naturally) the spotting would stop for 4 or 5 days and come back and last like 2 weeks. Wish I would have done research before I got it. The bleeding stopped around February, my periods still weren't regular and I don't know when they became regular but I'm now 7 weeks pregnant which I'm so happy because I thought it would take years to get pregnant after the shot."
"This is literally the worst birth control. Please don't ever get this birth control. I was on the birth control pills and I barely got any side effects, but it was really hard keeping up with the birth control pills, so I went on the depo shot. THE WORST DECISION OF MY LIFE. The day after I got the shot,  I got acne all over my face. I had whiteheads all over my forehead and cystic acne all over my face. For three months, I had really bad acne and it was never this bad... When the 3 months was over, my face was finally back to normal....."
"I was on depo-provera for 12 years. I've been off for about 5 I'm experiencing a lot of joint pain. My hands are so painful. Could this be due to depo?"
"I love depo provera. I had horrible periods so I decided to get the shot, Best decision I ever made. Right when I got the shot I had my period for two weeks straight but after that I didn't get it again only like 2 days of spotting for the first 3 months nothing bad. It has almost been a year and I don't have my period at all only a tiny bit of weight gain nothing that can't be managed."
"I had terrible weight gain. Do not recommend for 40 year congestive heart failure patients. Your diuretics will not work. I gained 40 pounds. I'm off now. Hoping this shot will wear off soon."
"A lot of people that I'm seeing have said bad things about this specific birth control, but I have had absolutely no problems with Depo Provera. I have been taking it for a year, and in the past year my mood has been evened out, my acne has cleared up, I have had no weight gain, and my period is completely gone. The downside is my sex drive has been lowered, but I do not wish to have kids for a while and if that is the only negative side effect of this drug I do not really mind. Don't say "don't use this - I had a horrible experience" because literally EVERYONE reacts differently to birth control. I would definitely recommend trying it, and if you don't like it go back to your doctor and discuss different birth controls to try."
"I've been on depo for the last 10 years? Years on and off. I hate it. I constantly have headaches, constantly feel sad/overwhelmed. I feel very fatigued. No sex drive. I would not recommend this to anyone. It's nice to never have a period but all of the other symptoms outweigh that one good part. Finally getting off of it this week and trying the arm implant."
"I don't recommend people to get the depo shot for birth control because from my experience it was... still is the worst. I'm currently on it and  it's my last month and I know I won't be going back. I got all the side affects like losing your hair, gaining weight, depression, mood swings, I have been on my period for two months and it's the worst. I get headaches out of no where and I lose interest when it came to being romantic with my partner. This birth control does not help when it comes to emotions and physical things. I don't recommend it at all!"
"I was on the shot for 7 years. I have gotten dizzy, bones weakened, had headaches, but eventually that stopped and I had a great experience because I didn't have a period no more. I recently switched to the mirena because I gained too much weight and my bones were weak plus its not good to be on the shot that long. I have had the mirena for a week now and about to get it removed because my boyfriend can feel it and I want to try the pill although its not that effective."
"This is a toxic drug !!!!!! Do not take this drug for any reason . My first shot was in December 2017, I started spotting 11 days later. I spotted for 3 months straight then it stopped for 3 weeks then back on again been spotting every day. NON stop . It's now May 2nd 2018 with absolutely no end in site I am very depressed about the non stop bleeding HORRIBLE DRUG"
"I was on the shot for 3 years. It was great! Little weight gain after the first month or two, no periods or cramping. Until it was brought to my attention that I my mood was unbelievable bad (think bad words here!)!!!! I didn't realize it until after. I have been off of my birth control for a year now. It took me 6 months to even get my period again. After I got it I had it for 3 weeks with serious cramping. After the 7 months of stopping, it took an additional 3 months to get a normal period cycle. I was off and on every week. I got debilitating migraines the entire time on it and up until 6 months after. It's slowly getting back to how it should be but after this it is condoms."
"I LOVE THE SHOT. I've been on it for 4 years and I have nothing bad to say about it. No weight gain, no effect on acne, no mood changes, and no pregnancy. I spotted for maybe the first month but I haven't had a period or period cramps in 4 years which is amazing. The first few times I got it, my body would be a little sore for about an hour or two after but it no longer has this effect on me. I also get the shot in the back so it only feels like a slight pinch. I cannot recommend it enough."
"The depo shots great I don't get my period I've been on it for about a year I don't find that I gained any weight at all but I do find my self hungry a lot, but I eat pretty well. I don't get acne often. The pill used to make me so moody but now I'm fine I feel pretty good sometimes I get really tired but I've always slept a lot. The only time I find my self with some acne and cramps is like for a couple days during the month before I need the shot. Definitely recommend vitamin D for your bones because depo can cause your bones to slowly get weaker but over a long time but if you find your body aching take vitamin D definitely helps get rid of aching!!!"
"I DO NOT RECOMMEND what so ever - it is HORRIBLE. I wish that I would've taken more time to research about it and see people's reviews . I got the shot in January and experienced a week long period in February and I'm 3 weeks in with my period that started in March and it's April now. I feel like I've definitely have been depressed and I've noticed a weight gain and my acne breaking out increasingly . I thought this would be convenient for me and help me but it has done nothing good to me. Please try and look into a different kind of birth control , trust me you will not benefit nor like this one ."
"I hated the Depo shot at first. The first month I got my shot I had no side effects, after that for 2 months every single day I was bleeding. I had severe headaches that made me nauseous, and messed with my eye sight, it made me super angry towards people, and I barely had energy. I just got my second shot yesterday and my bleeding stopped the next morning!!!! It was amazing, I hope everything starts to even out. The shot may suck at first but if you keep with it, it's worth it."
"I went on the depot shot after having my first.  I loved it,  my periods went away completely and I  had previously had heavy periods and bad cramps.  I did feel hungrier but if your eating right you shouldn't gain 30 to 40 pounds like I'm reading on other posts. I went off it to have my second child and it took 3 weeks to get pregnant.  I think every one is different and still react differently.  After reading all the other side effects from other birth controls where you cam become sterile because they can't find the implant.... weight gain is something that you can change,  being sterile you can't!  Do your homework before deciding what your going to do!!!  Thanks for letting me share,  I hope it helps ;)"
"Horrible took a few years back.  The problem is when you want to get pregnant after taking it will take forever. Also period has been irregular every since!!!! Do not recommend plus doctors wont tell you all the side effects included."
"After getting pregnant on the pill and having a baby, my doctor suggested depo. My doctor said that the drug makes you hungrier, it doesn't directly make you gain weight, the issue of gaining weight is due to bad eating habits! I have been able to lose weight even after I got on the depo, just eat how you should eat, it's on you whether you gain weight. I still got my period after the first two injections, and after the third it stopped. I get my shot ever 12 weeks on the dot. Love being on depo instead of worrying about a pill, a lot of women can be inconsistent with the pill and that is how I got pregnant. Highly recommend UNLESS you KNOW you will be 100% accurate with taking your bc pill every day and the exact same time"
"I was on this shot for a year, didn't notice any side effects except a 30 lb weight gain. Got sick of the weight, stopped the shot, lost all of it. Became active (cheerleading) again so I decided to go back on the shot because I had extremely heavy periods & the shot stopped mine. I was on it for about a year again but this time was terrible. It started out normal, gained my 30 lbs. Then I started getting really achy in my legs, I was exhausted 24/7, and I was extremely moody especially towards my boyfriend. Everything he did absolutely annoyed me. I'll lose a few pounds, and then it's time for my shot again and I swell up. A huge part is it increases your appetite, but I could still feel water weight that wouldn't come off. I recently switched to the kyleena IUD and I'm so relieved to be off of the shot I could cry."
"Made me break out like CRAZY!! I already have acne prone skin, so it took me a while to figure out that it was the depo shot that was causing it. My face was covered in zits, it was horrible. :( I switched to another form of birth control and haven't taken the shot in a couple of months and my skin has already cleared up. Wish I had never gotten on the shot."
"I have been on the depo for about 6 months I would say, I'm 18 and average at about 5'5 in height and I have gained over 40 pounds within 6 short months and I am definitely not happy. Weight gain, hair loss, severe anxiety, it's nice to not have to worry about periods and constantly using protection but it's not worth the weight gain."
"I was on this shot for about two years. The shot does it job! However, it caused an irregular period. Some months I'd get a period others I wouldn't. After I got off the shot I had a month long period. (Went to doc. of course) it took about a year and half to get a normal flow again. I feel like the after maths isn't worth it. Just try something else. !"
"I had my first shot of this in October, great no issues at all apart from a prolonged period for 10 days, had my second shot in January and began my period on 21st of February and ended up at the doctors due to the heavy abnormal bleeding, he prescribed tranxemic acid which did nothing then menefamic acid which has helped a little, its been 18 days and today I am spotting tiny amounts of brown discharge so it looks like my period is now stopping. This is really effective for pregnancy but if you want to keep your cycle regular then I would consider another method, however this is just my personal opinion. Hope this helps some people."
"I had my first shot of this in October. Everything was fine took a period from the 24th of November until the 10th of December. No period in January and now here I am been on my period for 17 days nearly 3 weeks. Visited the doctor to be given tranxemic acid which btw is not a help at all. Also had my bloods took and they have came back clear so nothing wrong. I stopped bleeding yesterday completely just a horrible browny discharge and then nothing completely until today. Here I am spotting, I am now on mefenamic acid and have been since Tuesday. I will never ever be having this shot again as my menstrual cycle was regular before I started taking this jab. You can imagine how awful this is as ai have been with my partner for nearly 3 years and yes he has been understanding but now this messy cycle is dementing me and I do not know what more to do as the doctor will probably not help as thats tranxemic acid  I have taken and then mefenamic acid. Avoid this."
"I've been on Depo since 2013 and I love it. A little weight gain, moodiness, weird irregular spotting are a bummer but I'm sure that's all birth control in general. I did get pregnant last year after not having the shot for about six months and experienced a miscarriage sadly, not blaming the Depo because there is no way of actually knowing. I'm going to be switching birth control this month due to the fact that long term use of Depo can cause osteoporosis, I would keep taking it if that weren't a factor. Very effective way to take your ovaries I would recommend."
"I had the Depo shot in 2010 once and it made me gain 2 pants sizes and I was very depressed.  Since then my cycle has been very messed up.. I just got back regular last year and I am now expecting!!!"
"I took it nearly a year ago. it's useful for the 3 months because you don't get pregnant. The hormones kicked in a week later and I became highly emotional and just wasn't myself"
"I've been on the shot for about 2 years now and it's honestly been great. Of course the beginning was horrific. I bled 26 days straight during my tennis season, but eventually it stopped and everything balanced out. I do notice some small pimples every now and then and I get moody sometimes. It did cause a decreases in sex drive but after this long, that's starting to go away. When I get the shot, so feel some pain around the injection area for about 4 days. Overall I would say I love this. I'm about to change though because the shot breaks down your bone density after a long time."
"Hey, I'm been on depo Provera off and on. Well this month Feb 17th my shot is suppose to be up. Therefore I didn't start my period like I normally do. I honestly don't know if I'm pregnant I haven't taken a test yet . Can anyone help me out here ."
"My experience, I didn't have a period at all after the 3rd shot, it was great. I did experience  period like symptoms when someone else was on their cycle but no blood. I did take calcium gummies while on the shot. After a year and a half of the shot (taken regularly, every 3 months), I stopped. Took me almost a year to detox from the shot. I did not take any other birth control after the shot. I am now pregnant with our first son, healthy pregnancy. I've been reading a lot of reviews and a lot of them I have read we're using the shot incorrectly. You can't take the shot, stop the shot and then do it when you feel like, of course that is going to give you some problems. I'm not going to recommend the shot but I'm not going to bash it either. There's a lot of factors as to why it worked or didn't work. More research needs to be done."
"I regret this shot :( I have been in pain for what it feels like forever now and I feel nauseous !! I got it in December and every day since I got it is just been horrible! I am not to going to get another one!! PLZ DON'T DO THE SHOT!!! Don't even just try it to try it!! You will want to cry everyday from just the pain and I have a very strong pain tolerance! Biggest regret!!!"
"So I've been on Depo for 5 months, going on 6 and to me it's pretty good. Before I was on it, I've been on my period twice a month and my cramps were terrible. Also I had a pregnancy scare with me and my boyfriend and I took a Plan B pill because I didn't want kids at the moment, and I wanted to gain weight because my doctor told me to eat more. Everyone's body is different, so the effects are different. I did have some side effects that I didn't like, but I pushed through. I highly recommend to get it! You can always switch if you don't like it! I'm most definitely going to my next appointment!"
"My wife had gotten this shot about a year ago. She had only got the first shot and immediately following we decided not to get the next. I would never recommend this to anyone who plans on having children for my wife hasn't had her period since and we are having fears of infertility. She had horrible head aches within the second month of the shot and muscle spasms.  She also lost her sex drive and had major mood swings. She was not herself and she started to gain weight almost immediately. Her body still isn't used to being off of the shot. Be very weary of choosing birth control. We learned our lesson."
"PLEASE do not use the Depo Provera. I got off of it about ten years ago and have had seizures ever since. The doctor won't believe me that they're caused by this (because she prescribes it every day), but I never had anything resembling a seizure until I got off the Depo, and I've read that other people have had the exact same experience. Please don't do it!!"
"My Dr recommended the depo shot because she didn't want bc pills to interfere with my antidepressants. In the beginning my period was much heavier and longer than normal for the first 2 months. After that it became lighter until I didn't have one anymore (yay!). Despite hitting the gym for about an hour a day, 6 Days a week I was slowly gaining weight. I gave up on the gym after gaining 20 lbs anyways. I stuck it out for a while year (+50 lbs gained in total), and now have not been on the shot for 7 months. My periods are back and completely irregular. Most recently I've had a period every other week for the past month. Getting on the depo shot was the absolute worst decision for me personally and I will not go back on it again."
"I strongly recommend this birth control method , everyone's body is different so everyone has their own opinions . Protects you from not getting pregnant and after a few month no more getting your period ! I have been on this for 5 years now. It's a great birth control method definitely suggest trying it out!"
"I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who wants a sex life or any life for that matter. I got the depo shot in November and started bleeding early December. It's now mid January and I bled for two months before it finally stopped yesterday. I had to do an ibuprofen treatment where I was taking 800mg three times a day. Not fun. Bled at least an ounce a day. It was like being on the second day of my period every day for two months. However, it did keep me from getting pregnant so I suppose it did it's job. Still wouldn't recommend."
"Overall I had no side effects aside for spotting and the intense spotting didn't happen until the third shot (by intense I mean random bleeding for less than a day, lots of stained underwear and constant pantyliners). It 100% protected me from pregnancy and it was nice only worrying about every 3 months. After this 4th shot my next move is to switch to nexplanon and hope that a slower chemical release will help my spotting."
"Stay away from this birth control!!! I have been bleeding every day for 3-4 months now with big clots and it has ruined all of my underwear. I cannot imagine how many tampons I have gone through! I also experienced very painful sex for quite some time which has only recently gotten more bearable. I have noticed I'm much more tired than I was before taking my first shot, I lost a scary amount of weight (too skinny already) probably from all the blood loss, and have been experiencing abdominal pain. I have no idea why I never looked up reviews before I decided to get the shot but lots of bad things come of this drug such as bone density loss, anemia, acne, and cancer!! PLEASE don't recommend this drug to anyone!!"
"I do not recommend this to anyone. I've had the worst experience of my life with this. It is my biggest regret. I took 2 shots so a total of only 6 months with this. Once I stopped I  didn't get my period for months.  Then I got my period and it hasn't stopped its been like 5 months of me bleeding straight every single day. I've gotten blood clots because of it and its making me depressed. I've gone to the doctors twice and they haven't helped me."
"I was recommended and given the shot to reduce the appearance of my acne (according to my clinic) and it made it 100x worse! I couldn't even touch my face, I just felt so embarrassed to be seen. I was always moody and extremely tired and gained over 15 pounds! for anyone who has acne I do not recommend this. I had little acne on my face and now I have tons of huge zits!"
"I have been on the depo shot since I was 12. Since then I haven't had a period. I've been off depo since April. It's now December and I'm barely getting my period back. Good birth control. The only issue I had was large scars on my stomach where the shot was given to me."
"If anyone reads this and is thinking about taking the depo shot PLEASE DO NOT USE IT!! I'm 28 years old and decided I wanted to use a “ convenient “ birth control . Little did I know what was to come . The first shot I took it stopped my period immediately. Without boring you with detail , let's just say I was in hospital with 3 types of auto immune diseases . Type 1 diabetes ( which does NOT run in my family ) thyroid and LUPUS . I truly feel this shot had something to do with this . I had my blood work done in the beginning of the year and I was completely fine . After 4 months I started bleeding and haven't stopped now for 4 months after and still bleeding. My body won't be normal for another 10 months!!!!!"
"I would advise everyone to stay away from this shot. Got first injection Nov.2 and will not be returning. Non stop spotting for a month. I really hate that I tried this mess. Wouldn't recommend it to anyone. If it wasn't for my husband and my children keeping me in good spirit daily I just could imagine what I would be doing (crying my eyes out)"
"Before I begin I want to state that every birth control is different for every woman. I knew someone who was on the depo-shot and had no problems, which is what prompted me to try it. This is probably the worst birth control that I personally have been on. My symptoms consisted of feeling like I'm going to black out, and general dizziness, I also had terrible acne that did not go away even when I came off of the depo shot. Another minor symptom I had was serious weight gain, luckily that went away almost immediately upon coming off of the shot. I believe weight gain is a common symptom of the shot though, granted I was only on it for three months- so, I only had one shot. It didn't work well for me."
"I got my 1st injection sometime in September and I actually go for my 2nd tomorrow. Very effective birth control. As far as side effects goes I've been having crazy mood swings. I know everyone is different but take this into account when deciding. I've taken the pill before and my mood has never been affected like with this depo. As far as spotting I've had some super light spotting for about 2 weeks when I first got the injection and haven't since then."
"If gaining weight isn't a big deal for you then go right ahead. I gave this birth control 2 chances! And both times I got FAT! Gained over 30 pounds with the depo shot. The first time I gave it over a year. My period completely stopped which was awesome, was effective since I never got pregnant. The only side effect was the massive weight gain. I got on another form of birth control and about 2 years later I decided to give the shot one more chance and this time maybe be more active and work out, eat better etc. sure enough no matter how healthy I ate or worked out I managed to still gain 30+ pounds. Will never get on the depo shot ever again. It took me about a year to naturally lose all the weight gain."
"I'm 18 and I've been on this shot for almost a year now and I'm not sure if I'm going to do it anymore.  My doctor put me on it because of my heavy periods but the past couple months have been really bad in October I had my period for 2 weeks and now I've had 2 periods in the past 4 weeks.  It's made me gain about 20 pounds and being in uni makes that very hard because you start to feel overweight.  It has messed with my depression sometimes cancelling out my pills.  I don't recommend it to people my age I think I was put on it to young"
"I have been on the Depo for 10 years!!! And it has been wonderful!! I don't have mood swings, I don't have depression. I feel a little blue on the day of the shot but that's about it. I did experience weight gain at first, I was 128 lbs starting on it then ballooned to 165 in the first 3 years, and now hover at 153 lbs (without real exercise but watching what I eat), I'm 5'6". The only reason I'm getting off of it is because my current obgyn, who I switched to after 5 years of being on depo because my last obgyn retired, freaked out that I had been on it so long and wants to give my body a 1 year break due to the bone density loss issue. No acne, and my periods stopped after 6 months."
"Depo provera did a good job at protecting me against pregnancy. But I gained a lot of weight!! I didn't gain much for the first 3 months I had it. Although, after about 6 months (2 shots) I noticed a significant amount of weight gain, and after almost a year I gained about 20-25 pounds.  I was exercising, and changed my diet and nothing happened. The irregular bleeding & other side effects were minor side effects to me. The weight gain was my major concern. After reading all of the other reviews for depo, I saw a lot of other women had issues with weight gain too, so I switched to nexplanon  (implant), and for me it has had the same side effects as the shot BUT without weight gain. I've been able to lose about 10 pounds since I switched!!"
"I was on depot for 4 months after giving birth, I stopped having the shots as it caused moodiness, ange, depression, weight gain and all sorts of probs I'd never had before. Didn't get aunt flo for the whole 4 months. Then when I stopped the shots aunt flo didn't go away for nearly 9 (very long) frustrating month's."
"""Not recommended at all.
I didn't get period for two months, but after that I was on my period for two weeks with lots of pain, it was annoying. I usually don't have pain on my days, but during those two weeks, the bleeding and pain were horrible"""
"I was on Depo for a total of 9 months, or 3 shots. The first was great! I had a little spotting towards the end, and it stopped after I got the second shot. A week after getting the second shot though, I started a heavy period that didn't stop for 6 months. It also made me depressed."
"I HATED depo. Made me bleed soooo much I thought I was miscarrying. I suffered from extreme blood loss and am now on bed rest. Made me super moody, and I gained 20 pounds since starting in January. Switched to the patch, which has been soooo much better."
"I must be one of the few women the shot worked for...I've been on it about 4 years. No significant weight gain, no acne, and absolutely no periods or spotting. The reason I got on it to begin was due to my terrible cramps and now I have none. I love the shot honestly."
"I definitely regret take the depo shot as BC. I didn't spot the first time I got the shot but a month or two after I started spotting and it's been constant for about 6 months now. The main issue was that I gained weight on it. I have always been the same weight no matter how much I eat and don't exercise. This is the first time my weight has increased this fast and its quite depressing. I was supposed to go in for my fourth shot but decided against it and am going to be trying to patch now. Hopefully it doesn't have the same side affects. Not having a period with cramps every month was great but I'd rather deal with that than constant spotting."
"Decreased my sex drive and physically in a lot more pain in my joints... It's good for women over 25 but under 25 is not the best"
"""I had one shot and came on my period about two weeks late then was on/off quite heavily for the rest of the 3 months, I was on more than I was off in all I think I was off for about 4 days give or take. It's been a year since I last had the shot and my periods still aren't fully back to normal, I used to be extremely regular, I now come on twice a month, and never know when am going to come on! 
I wouldn't recommend this to anyone"""
"Okay I'm on this medicine right now and I am a older teenager and I don't recommend it! I mean yes I can have sex but still I've been gaining so much weight that I have to starve myself!! I'm always so moody and I never want to do anything. I get very depressed especially at night and I cry so hard until my throat is raw! I don't mind being able to have sex without worries but it's not worth all this that I'm going through! I honestly miss my period I feel so unhealthy without it."
"I hate the depo. It completely took  away my sex drive, so the shot is pointless anyway when I'm not sexually active. I've also been on my period/spotting for 7 weeks. This shot is miserable I can't wait for it to be out of my system. The negative side effects seem to effect more people than the positive! I highly recommend getting another form of birth control. I wish this didn't even exist."
"I've had it for two year now. It works great, I haven't had any surprise pregnancies... But, I have gained 40 lbs since  then despite exercising a 3-5 times a week and controlled eating habits. The first few months I felt really fatigued and got a lot of large acne flare ups and my appetite increased like crazy - I was never satisfied/full. I gained 10 lbs those first few months. I've had no bleeding at all, which was nice. Those are my only complaints. I will be getting off the shot bc with all my physical activity and limited eating, I still gain weight :("
"I would NEVER use this! Going into my 4th year I started having pains in my pelvic area that lasted 30mins-6hrs. It would wake me up, at the time I had these intense pains I would bleed then it would just stop. Went to OB and got a pelvic ultrasounds, I had tremendous blood clots in my uterus that wouldn't pass. The shot stopped working and stored my monthly flow on my uterus the dr said seemed like it stopped working for at least a year. Had to get cervical dilation to see if it'll come out, it didn't so a couple days later I got a D&C. It's been 3 weeks since and I'm having heavy bleeding. Which I think is only because my hormones are off! Do NOT get on this shot!!! Hopefully I can get something to regulate this!"
"I've been on the birth control shot for almost two years now, I absolutely love it. The beginning of the shot sucks, you bleed a lot and it almost never stops. But after a little while, it takes your period away. I haven't gotten a period since probably may of this year (no I'm not pregnant I've made sure) it hasn't made me gain weight, or have any other problems! I would highly suggest it."
"I got the shot, and I have been able to have sex with no problems. But, I suggest if you don't know your partner that well then it would be a good idea to wear a condom as well. I love the depo, I don't get a period. The only thing is you have to know how to control your appetite. Because, it can make you very hungry. But, other than that. I believe this is the best method of birth control."
"Dr suggested for heavy periods and almost anaemic.  One month no bleed but then the bleed started and has now been two months of on/off light to heavy with minor to major clotting. Had ultrasound and have two fibroids.  Tummy upset, cramping, fatigue and loads of money spent on liners, tampons and pads.  As I took this for heavy bleeding and low iron levels, it has done nothing but cause trouble.  Seeing a Gyno today for info on surgery as a permanent solution... but then I am 47 and blessed with children.  BIG RISKS to consider if you are deciding on this horrible shot!"
"I was on the Depo injections for around 2 years during Uni, having previously been on the Microgynon pill. In many ways, it was perfect for me- it completely stopped my periods, which was so convenient, and I had no cramps or pain at all. The problem was, my skin gradually got worse and worse, and stupidly at the time, I didn't put it down to the Depo. I had always had mild acne, but the Depo made it so much worse and just constant. Finally, I was taken off Depo due to possible bone density issues for long-term use (over 2 years), and switched to Yasmin, which cleared my skin up completely! I know other people who had Depo and it didn't affect their skin at all, so I think it depends on your hormones personally. As BC alone it was ideal!"
"So I started the shot on July 20, 2017 and the day after I had my period which I thought was normal because my period is usually around that time. But then it didn't go away! At first it started off normally then after 4 days it started to get lighter and I thought it was just about to go away, NOPE!! I was spotting for about 2 weeks. I finally went away for about a week and there it was again. Its September 13 and I'm still spotting. I've been bleeding nonstop for so long and is so annoying, I've done research and talked to other girls and heard what they had to say about when they got there first shot and they said they bled too 3,4 or 6mo! going to get my next shot which will be next month but if the bleeding is continuously then I quit!"
"I started the shot in June. The first month I spotted and when it was about the time I get my period it got a little heavier for two days and back to spotting for 2 more weeks. I've had heavy periods since I was ten, I don't have fibroids just bleed really heavy. I recommend this shot if you have heavy periods. We don't use any other contraception and no pregnancies here. The only reason I give it a 8 is because it made my anxiety come back. This is a secret weapon and I think a lot of the negative reviews are just women who want to keep the depo shot secret to themselves. Give it a shot but also some time for your body to adjust to it."
"""Absolutely hate the depo provera shot ! 
I GAINED soo much weight its disappointing!  After I had my baby  I went back to my regular weight which was 130 ,  I had my baby on 2/27/17  & had went  back to the clinic for my 6 week ob post partum and then the nurse had asked me what wa sI going to use for contraception, and i answered ""condoms "" and she responded with "" you know  some condoms can fail - how about some birth control pills, shot, IUD and the nexplanon , these are our top 4 popular birth control options of course we have more but definitely recommend these ! "" as she mentioned all of them she started giving me information about the 4 options , so then I decided on the depo , because I'm not good with remembering to take pills every day and at the same time , I definitely don't want something in my uterus or in my arm , at that point depo sounded perfect.  I noticed a lot of mood changes, hungriness and weight changes. I was depressed, emotional , most the time , was extremely rude to my husband, and I was   tired all the time, all I wanted to do is sleep. I was hungry all the time i was eating every 2 hours I could not control my hungriness and at that moment all I wanted to do is eat and sleep. Then I started noticing I was getting thicker around may waist & decided to checked my weight, I had gained 40 pounds in 3 months and first time taking it! I never went back to get my second depo . I honestly don't recommend any birth control.. I know every one bodies are different but still they are bad for us believe it or not !"""
"I will never ever take this shot again I was on it for about 3-4 years and when I got off of it and got married it took me 3 years to get pregnant it put me in a deep depression!! If anyone is kids in the future I highly recommend get on a different form of birth control!!!!!"
"I've been on the depo shot since March 2017. That same night I ended up having a bad chest pain. Like someone stabbed me. Then it stopped for a couple days and then back again. I didn't think much of it. So further on I stopped having pains until my second dose in June 2017. Then it was my back hurting on the right side. It would hurt off and on and then go away for a few weeks. As 4 weeks pass I started having pains again. Waking me up in the middle of the night. I kept feeling like I was going to vomit but it would never come. So I went to the ER and got checked. They took blood samples, urine samples, chest and back x-rays. Everything came back negative. Then we thought it was my gall bladder and still nothing wrong. Not doing the third"
"Have had the shot twice now. About to get my third. There's been some irregular bleeding. And it's mostly after sex. But no full period. No cramps, PMS, never wear  tampons or pads anymore.  It's been very efficient! I've taken tests just to be sure too! "
"Been on the shot for 5 months now and over all I don't mind some of the side effects (to me they seem mild). The most annoying one is the irregular bleeding, for example: I've had 1 regular period since the start, then it stopped the next month, then I bled (spotted) the whole next month, now I am just spotty throughout the month on and off. I still get PMS symptoms, but they're not as intense as before use.  It did not help clear up my acne (existing hormone issue) but it is less of a hassle than the pill. I did increase my Vit. B intake with this method (as recommended). I rather deal with irregular spotting than a child so I will continue use."
"I got the shot in June due for another one in September . I am debating on whether to get it again or for the main simple fact I have irregular periods its looks its going to start but never does . So just a warning a lot of these reviews are true personal experiences. And I don't think I want it again"
"I was on the shot for almost a year in October I went to my doctor today for my shot I am still bleeding I bled for a week straight I want to stop bleeding I had blood clots for 3 days the blot clots stopped now I am bleeding heavy before my shot my doctor said the lining of your    Uterus sheds that Is why I was bleeding I know that when I am on the birth control needle it takes a week to work I hope that the bleeding will finally end so I can stop using pads."
"""I took one shot , at the end of Feb. 2017. Missed my next dose on purpose because the Depo completely killed my sex drive. 
A week after my missed dose, I had severe anxiety, had to leave work early because of it. I've struggled w/ anxiety in the PAST and had learned to keep it under control very very well. This time I could not stop the intrusive anxious thoughts, and life had been going well, so no reason to be anxious. I also experienced a period of depression which seems to go in and out. It's been 2 months since my missed dose and although it's less, anxiety and depression is still there. I would not recommend any type of HORMONAL BC to anybody because as far as I can see, many other types of BC cause the same effects during or after."""
"I've been using depo for 4 years continuously and it has been such a blessing. I've had no side effects. I haven't had a period the whole time I have been on it, and I personally love that."
"I never have used any birth control until after I had my baby  so I got on the shot right afterwards.  The pros no period, no pregnancy. Cons my sex drive was like a  on and off switch, weight gain, also no energy so its been a year that I've been on it I plan on getting in the gym you have to stay active with it I want to get off it but don't want to get pregnant and don't want to try anything else. I thought about the pills but don't think I will remember"
"WORST SHOT EVER!! I just had one shot done and didn't even give the 2nd shot after 3 months a try.  Gave me horrible head aches, acne that's so huge I look disgusting to even go out in public, pain on my right ovary 24/7 , made me super mad and angry to the point my bf broke up with me and I'm even off the shot now and still have pain on my ovary . It's been 7 months and I only had one shot just ONCE and still no period . It's really upsetting and it makes me suicidal . It also made my boobs tiny IDK how that's possible but they went from C cups to As and still not back to normal ."
"This shot is terrible and I do not recommend it at all. My mood swings are terrible, I was put on an anti depressant because it made my anxiety terrible, and the abnormal, random, heavy bleeding with no warning after being on it for almost a year SUCKED. Not only was the bleeding random and heavy, it was for weeks at a time too. The shortest period I had was about a week. The only good thing that came of it is it definitely prevented pregnancy for me and I didn't gain weight from it."
"I am so thankful for this birth control. I switched from the pill to depo because the pills gave me horrible anxiety and depression. Immediately after I switched, I was myself again. After two doses, my periods stopped. I know birth control affects everyone differently, but I have had no negative side affects at all. My only complaint is after every injection, I would get a headache for a couple of days. I'm 21 and I just hit the two year mark, and my doctor recommended that I switch to a different BC this month and I'm so sad and nervous... I am worried about getting the negative side affects of a new BC after being worry free and comfortable for 2 years."
"I have just hit the 2 year mark of being on the shot. Which they recommended to stop at this point. I am unsure what birth control to choose next. I have endometriosis and the shot has helped soo much by stopping my periods but it has also caused almost all side effects it can cause. Weight gain, drowsiness, headaches, fatigue, awful acne, swelling in my legs and ankles for over a year, you name it I've experienced the side effect.. I do recommend it for endo patients with severe pain and bleeding but those who don't have endo I wouldn't not recommend it as the side effects would not be worth it."
"This is the WORST damn injection do NOT GET it, 2 of my friends bled badly for 4 months after shots of this and I personally suffer a stupid condition that has no cure be warned. This will cause an autoimmune issue. Should be FDA banned"
"I was on the shot at 19 for about 2 yrs then went back to pills. I decided 6 months ago to go back to the depo, I had no bad side effects at 19. Now 24 the side effects of this shot are terrible. My anxiety has worsened, I'm depressed but the over all worst is the acne! Cyst acne on my neck and chin. I've never had acne not even as a teen. It's awful. It's gotten much worse. I spent 80$ on acne meds!!! Not to mention it has know estrogen in it! I'm due in 2 months for my next shot. Defiantly not getting it again! Going back to pills to hopefully get back to my normal self and skin!!!!"
"I went on this because I was tired of taking pills everyday. Within the 1st dose my periods stopped and I thought Wow this is great. However in the 2 doses that I had I gained 40 pounds. I was on the pills for 7 years and  I had steady weight. If I could go back I would NEVER switched to the Depo Shot. Worst decision ever!"
"I got the shot six weeks ago. About a week after I started to experience stomach problems, and had daily, painful diarrhea. After two weeks of on and off diarrhea my bowel movements backs solid but rare, and then after that I would experience a lot of gas after eating. All of my stomach problems stopped after five weeks. I also have been diagnosed depressed and haven't found the shot to make it any worse. I've also experienced a lot of binge eating on the shot but haven't gained weight. I used to have a very painful first day of my period (bad cramps, diarrhea, gas, vomiting) but once I experienced my period on the shot I just had cramps but no blood. Im not pregnant but my period has stopped completely."
"I took depo for 5 years.  Loved it for the most part.  First starting it was kinda rough. I lightly bleed continuously for 3-5mo for the most part. I had really heavy periods before hand so I didn't think it was that big of a deal. After about a year on it my periods would stop for 2.5 months then start 2 weeks before my shot was due.  MY SIDE EFFECTS: I gained 20 my normal average -30 pounds heaviest being unhealthy on depo. I started when I was 19- stopped @24.  So weight gain is pretty normal so I'm sure it wasn't all depo related.  I also slowly lost my sex drive and it  became nonexistent.  After 5 years I'm getting off because I think I didn't take enough calcium and now my joints started to ache. REMEMBER to take 1500 mg calcium**"
"I got the depo shot 6 months ago. First month was normal no bleeding, normal sex, no weight gain, no problems at all. After a month I had heavy bleeding was no longer able to lose weight started breaking out and had horrible cramps. I've been experiencing these side effects for 5 months and my Dr does not know what is wrong. DO NOT GET THE SHOT"
"I took the shot June 7 2017. Thats 2 days after my period i thought everything was going to be fine I didn't bleed or even spot for the first 2 months! Then I started spotting for a week and now its getting heavy. Its been almost 2 weeks with constant spotting/ bleeding. Reading all the reviews now is making me wonder if its good for me or not. If my bleeding doesn't stop by the time I take my next shot which is on August 3. I won't be taking the shot any longer. I may try take it another time but if I have constant bleeding thats a big NO for me. I'll just take the pills and have a normal period, rather than ruin my body and ruining my relationship ugh! My boyfriend is really understanding but its ruining my sex life. "
"""I had the IUD, and got it taken out due to severe cramps and other issues. I got on the depo shot to try something different hoping it would help. I just got my first dose a WEEK ago, and I am a completely different person. My mood swings are the WORST. I'm always angry, irritable, nothing van make me happy and I'm always depressed. This is a horrible way to live everyday life. I can't make it better and my mood doesn't change. It definitely helped with my cramps and bleeding, but these mood swings are unbearable and I can't tolerate it. 
I know this shot works different on everyone, but it's certainly not for me."""
"""If I could rate 0 I would 
****WARNING PLEASE LISTEN****
IF YOU ARE CONSIDERING THE DEPO SHOT AND HAVE BIPOLAR DEPRESSION PLEASE BE AWARE OF THE SIDE EFFECTS THAT MAY OCCUR!!! =====> Extreme mood swings, irritably, feelings of familiarity, odd sensations and worse depression. If you are considering depo please take caution if you do have bipolar depression. It works differently for everyone but I just know I don't like the outcomes and I feel that I should just fore warn others just in case"""
"Please steer clear of this. I was on the injection for about 8 months when I unknowingly had a miscarriage. I never had my period when I was on depo and never imagined I could be pregnant until I was in the ER. It was such a traumatizing experience, I hope nobody has to go through what I had to go through because this injection failed to work."
"I received my 1st shot a week after giving birth in 2015, I bled the entire 1st month then it stopped completely. So overall I loved being on the shot, I am very petite so I enjoyed the little weight gain, BUT it did decrease my sex drive. I also began having slight headaches maybe once a month, which caused me to finally switch birth controls after 2 years. But I did love the shot overall an I recommend it, especially if you're practicing abstinence!"
"I got this shot in May for the first time. My doctor told me I would stop getting my period (which I never had any issues with). I figured since I have a horrible time remembering to take my pill that I would try this shot. NEVER AGAIN!! I have the worst mood swings ever and I've been spotting for a month. I rather get my period once a month then spot for an entire month. I will NOT be getting the shot again."
"""I loved Depo. I used the generic from age16-21. My insurance stopped covering the shot. I miss it!
On my first shot of depo, my period got shorter and lighter each month, and on my second shot, I don't think I had a period. I know by the third shot, I trusted depo.
I threw away my emergency period travel purse before the end of the first year and never had a single drop of period for 5 years. Miracle.
No condoms, no pregnancy. 
It helped my acne.
My negative side effects were it changed my personality. I felt less social, lower libido (still functioned well), and some doctors tried to diagnose me with depression. I experienced sleep paralysis once every 6 months. 
Those negatives don't outweigh the positives for me!"""
"I went on the shot in early July (2016) because I had very heavy periods that I wanted to control. After the first month, my regular cycle came but NEVER stopped. I bled every single day until my next shot. The doctor told me it should stop after the second shot once it regulated in my body. About a week after my shot, I started bleeding even heavier. I was having to change my tampon each hour and blood clots were coming out of me. After a month of bleeding like that it began to settle. I decided that I was not going to get my third shot ( January 2017). Anyways it is now June and I am still bleeding every single day. I'm now Anemic and have no energy. Not to mention all of the money I have spent on pads and tampons."
"At first, I loved the depo shot. I got 6 weeks after giving birth and I haven't had a period since, which is wonderful. Unfortunately, my appetite increased greatly and I ended up gaining so much weight that I'm back to wearing maternity clothes because none of my clothes fit. I weigh as much as I did at 40 weeks pregnant and I've only been on the shot for 7 months. My next shot is scheduled for next month, but I am switching back to a pill. I have always been thin and I feel like someone else in my heavier body. If you don't mind weight gain, it's a great option. But the weight gain is too much for me."
"Worst birth control I've ever been on. Even compared to needing my Mirena IUD surgically removed. All birth control comes with side effects but I had the worst experience with the depo shot. I stayed on it just over a year and a half (thinking it would get better eventually?) and I decided not to continue it, with all the issues I've had. ZERO sex drive, extreme fatigue, lots of weight gain, major anxiety (needed medication), moodiness.. now that I stopped, I'm having major abdominal cramping, similar to mild contractions. I would not recommend this birth control. I feel like I've become a completely different person with all these mood changes and fatigue. I hope I can get back to normal after this. Really regretting doing the depo.."
"Depo- Provera has been a life saver for me! Since I've been getting it, my severe bleeding I've suffered for so long with is gone! I have no periods at all. It's also amazing at preventing pregnancy. I've been with my fiancé for 11 years & we don't use protection, and I like to let him finish in me. No babies here! The only symptoms I get when the shot is first given is slight fatigue. I'd highly recommend you giving it a chance. I've tried everything from an IUD to pills. The IUD worked great for pregnancy also, but caused severe pain & I had to get it removed along with a pelvic ultrasound to make sure no damage was done."
"At the suggestion of my OBGYN, for recurrent vaginal yeast infections that seemed to come 2 weeks after every single period for no reason. I decided to do the depo shot to keep my hormones high and potentially stop my period to hopefully end the yeast infections. I am rating this a 5. The yeast infections stopped, so it worked in that sense. However, the side effects are horrible! Weight gain, acne (always near the end of the 12 week mark when you're due for another shot ) and I'm talking cystic acne, horrible horrible acne. I'm 32 and my skin looks like I am going through puberty every time my shot is about to run out. I also get it on my back. Never before did I have that issue. Sex drive decreases. And, around the 12 weeks mark migraines"
"I am actually switching birth controls and was wondering what avenue to pursue. Yet, I have been on depo for the last 5-7 years.  The bleeding sucks.  It has lasted for up to 2 months before.  It does a great job preventing pregnancy.  I don't mind the weight gain.  For those asking about getting pregnant after depo. It can take up to a year for the medication to completely lose effect.  I don't recall many mood swing or depression. Even when I first started it.  Depo is a great birth control for not getting pregnant."
"I have been on the depo for 5 years now , the only side effects I have experienced were increased appetite and headaches. My last shot expired in March and l am now trying for a baby in the last month l started feeling nauseous, vomiting, tiredness, tender breasts and increase in my sex drive. l have done a pregnancy test but it was negative. Some are telling me that these are the side effects of the shot wearing off. Is this true ??"
"""I am a first time user took the shot in April after giving birth in Feb and I can't wait for it to be over! 
Never doing it again! 
Lack of sex drive
Appetite increased
Mood swings
Night sweats
Crazy freaking dreams
Tired all the time 
Hair loss
Light bleeding for a whole month
Can't tell if the lack of sex comes from the shot or the birth. Hair loss may be due to be breastfeeding. Gus's I'll find out after this is over.
Works well in preventing another pregnancy but I'm not going to do all this for that!"""
"I have been on the shot since I was 15 I am 36  now!  I bled a lot! You would have abnormal bleeding for the first year after 12 months it stops completely so if you bleed a lot for the first year what it's doing is getting you ready to have no  bleeding at all! I have 2 kids that was planned! I know In the beginning can be depressing but well worth it in the end!"
"I've been on the shot for three years now. My first year on the shot everything went smooth beside the fact I spotted after sex. However my last two years on the shot I gained 40 pounds. I experienced shortness of breath , depression, anxiety , pelvic pain , stiffness in muscles ( which was awful because I was a dancer ) tiredness and a huge increase in appetite. Even though the shot stopped my periods and pain.. I would not recommend this to anyone. Now my body is slowly getting back on track ."
"""I have got this birth control twice!
The first time I got in NO side effects what so ever, besides a little bit of spotting here and there. I decided to get the shot again, and honestly it was the worst decision I've ever made. I am unusually moody all the time, I break out crying out of no where, I am always in and out of serious depression and I am always tired! If I would have known this shot would have been the end of most friendships, relationships and even people liking me.. I wouldn't of ever got it. It has ruined me as a person! Don't get it if you're sensitive to birth control. It will not be right for you and you will be miserable. I can't wait to be off of this birth control I will never go back to the depo."""
"Prevents pregnancy but definitely not worth the side effects. It will cause mood swings a week into getting it. Please, for the sake of your own health do not get this shot."
"I had my baby the end of January took the shot in February. It made me break out so much, lost some hair, and I am angry all the time. Aside from that I never really got the bad symptoms I barely even bleed. It's now May & I'm due for my 2nd shot the last week of May however I started feeling very light head and nausea. I took a pregnancy test turns out I am pregnant. I'm so upset because I just had my first daughter and am unsure if I want to continue this pregnancy. It might have been my body but I wouldn't trust the shot."
"""I took the shot once and from the week I took it until the week it ended it was literally impossible to have sex, it hurt everywhere. Inside and at the opening. We tried to have sex maybe 4 times, just for a few seconds until I couldn't take it anymore. Husband went crazy! The GYNO said that I didn't fit the profiles for anything like endometriosis or vulva-something, nothing. I was a medical mystery with no reason to be having so much pain. There weren't other symptoms or side effects for anything, the doctors were all just like ""I don't know -  good luck"".
And I bled for 80 out of 90 days. Profusely.
As far as protecting against pregnancy, I don't know, because I had sex a total of 48 seconds in 3 months."""
"I have been on the depo shot for 3 years and for the most part it does keep you from getting pregnant. My first 2 years on the depo went quite smoothly but I have noticed that it made me very depressed and messed up my sex drive, but the last few months I've been noticing that I've been very moody, depressed, spotting, nauseous every other day, weight loss & I've also been feeling very dizzy and weak. I've also heard that it takes a while to get pregnant once you get off so I do not recommend, I will not be getting another depo shot & I regret ever getting it."
"I am 18 years old and I've been on the since I was 15, two months before my sixteenth birthday. I have done loads of research on this shot and after taking it this long  and reading everyone's complaints, I have reached a final conclusion that this shot has deteriorated my health tremendously. I have always had problems with feeling depressed but ever since I got on this shot I've been feeling so horribly suicidal and anxious, my mood has been affected so badly too. I am always stressed or not really sure about what or how I feel. I have really bad abdominal pain, and not to mention the worse headaches and dizziness of my life. I am constantly dizzy and fatigued and i gained lots of weight. It prevents pregnancy yes, but not worth it."
"It was terrible! The beginning was fine I was having sex and wasn't pregnant so I was fine then 3 weeks into using the depo I was bleeding everyday !! Not even exaggerating it was so unpredictable I had maybe one day without bleeding a month and it wasn't a full day it was a half day! I was bleeding for 5 months and went to the doctors and they said I was anemic and gave me a hormone medicine to stop the bleeding I was still bleeding. Maybe around the 6 or 7 month I stopped and just gained a massive amount of weight I was 170 and went all the way to 250 while I was playing sports and working out. I finally got off and they told me it could be in my system for up to a year while I'm still trying to lose weight. I DON'T RECOMMEND"
"I wish I would've listened to the reviews before getting this shot. It has caused me to have severe anxiety and panic attacks. I can only hope that I'm able to go back to normal after these hormones are out of my system. Additionally, my acne has worsened and I'm hungry all the time. But none of that compares to the anxiety. I haven't felt like myself in weeks. Absolutely do not try this shot if you are able to get another method of birth control."
"Believe the reviews!! I got my first shot last month. How is this legal?? I just have light brown bleeding everyday, hot flashes and night sweats every night. I can't sleep, and I keep having crazy vivid dreams - again every. single. night. I don't take any other medication and I never had crazy vivid dreams like this. Between the night sweats, vivid dreams and being anxious I probably sleep two hours a night and I have a 5 month old son who sleeps all night. I have acne and I have never had acne as a teenager or an adult. I had it slightly at the beginning of my pregnancy but it wasn't like this. I swear every bad side effect I read, I have! This has never happened with any meds before"
"I've been on depo for almost 4 years and I got off and had my son and went back on and this time around it is worse than before. I have lost so much weight I am always angry sad even depressed my hair is falling out and I've been spotting non stop and my sex drive is gone. smh I feel so bad because I don't want to have sex when I am always spotting. I will never ever get back on depo. 'm due for it in june but I'm not going to - I want my body and health back"
"""Worst experience. My daughter was just 10 months old. I took first shot on January 9 and was supposed to take another one in March. 
As soon as I took the shot my periods became irregular. I went to my GP she said it's very common and it will continue and will stop after few days. I had periods for more than 30 days. I started to react very weird in those days.  A few days later I felt some changes in my taste and then my husband asked me to do preg. Check. I was shocked to see the results. I never wanted to have a baby so soon.  I was depressed and used to cry a lot. It was the worst time of my life.I Finally decided to continue with the pregnancy. My daughter is now 3 yrs and my son 1.5 yrs old. I won't recommend at all. I don't want anyone else to suffer"""
"I've been in this shot for 5 months. First 3 months I was always spotting & I was always angry. I always had acne but this shot made it worse. I started having nightmares and my anxiety was worse but I still decided to go on with my 2nd. Once I got my 2nd shot the bleeding went away, most of the side effects went away except for my acne it got worse. My skin hasn't been this bad in years! & my hair is falling out like crazy I'm afraid to even brush it. My sex drive also completely went away. I also started bleeding again this while on this and ever since I started bleeding again.im severely depressed. I don't know how to shake this feeling off. If you have a history of acne & depression pls don't get this shot. It will bring everything back"
"""On Depo for 19 months, began taking it after my second child. Had no period. Major mood swings, constant exhaustion and trouble sleeping.
No sex drive- after some research, I discovered why.. Depo is used as a CHEMICAL CASTRATION drug for sex offenders in multiple states. 
-My Dr did not mention that I was drugging myself like a convicted sex offender, did yours?"""
"I'm on my second, and last, depo shot. The first time I got the shot I only experience spotting for about 2.5 months. During my second shot I've experience severe abdominal pain causing me to barely be able to eat for a few months now, depression that comes and goes out of nowhere, headaches, weakness and fatigue even if I sleep 8 hours I still feel exhausted throughout the day, and since the second shot I've had multiple anxiety attacks. I would not recommend this shot to anyone. I haven't felt like myself in months and even the smallest amount of stress will get to me and cause an anxiety attack or depression. Before the shot, I've never had any of these symptoms."
"""If you already suffer from anxiety, DO NOT TAKE THIS SHOT. I read the warnings and tried it anyway and I am 100% regretting it now.
After my first shot, I felt moody and depressed, but I thought these were effects of the abortion I had a few weeks prior. Somehow, the mood swings continued. My anxiety worsened. I was having panic attacks every other night during the last week of the 3rd month. My body was exhausted.
For some reason, I still didn't equate the stress to the shot. I took the shot again when it was scheduled to be given to me, and all hell broke loose. The fear and anxiety and sadness I felt during the first week of my first round were tenfold. I will NOT be taking this again and look forward to it leaving my system."""
"This shot is VERY effective for birth control, but the side effects are NOT worth it. I gained 17 pounds, had horrible mood swings, was constantly crying and moody, and I had the worst constant breakouts. I started it at 20 years old and had never had any acne in my life and had never had any problems with my weight. I immediately had bad side effects after starting the shot but decided to stick with it. I was on the shot for 9 months, and I thought that the side effects would go away, but they never did. It took me over a year and a half for my skin to get back to normal. If you try this shot and it does not work for you,  I do not recommend staying on the injections because it takes forever for the medication to leave your system."
"""I am currently laid in a ball In absolute agony after stopping the depo 2 weeks ago. I started it in October 2015 and the first 9 months were fabulous. On approaching my 4th injection I started bleeding, nothing major but it was constant and I have been like this for the last year. I have maybe 4 days a month of not bleeding. GP has put it down to stress. I have put on 2 stone since starting it, contrary to GP's belief that I am eating too much and not exercising enough and I feel utterly miserable...
However,  nothing compares to coming off it... Excruciating and constant headaches that feel like a permanent hangover,  nausea,  extreme hunger, skin so oily that my head is covered in but the bleeding is something else. 
Just don't start."""
"Awful stuff. If you have ever suffered with depression do not use this because it will make you very depressed - they don't tell you this. mood swings have been awful from angry to crying to anxious. I'm like a psycho on it. constant headaches, tiredness, stomach cramps, heartburn, feel dizzy and weak, nausea.. and the hunger! Omg the hunger.. I constantly feel like I haven't eaten for a week and even after eating a meal I still have hunger pain. The only good thing it's done for me (except prevent pregnancy) is I am losing weight even though I'm eating more because of the constant hunger. It seems to have made my metabolism go crazy. I've lost 5 pounds in the 4 weeks since I had the injection. Majority of people gain weight though I read."
"I'm coming off the depo soon, hoping the withdrawal symptoms aren't as bad as I heard. Initially the shot made me bleed for the first shot, 3 months, then it abruptly stopped. If I didn't get the shot right away, it caused some pretty awful mood swings if I didn't get it the first day possible. Lost a bit of weight in the breast area, went down a bra size due to the shot. Otherwise, no significant weight gain. No periods is a big plus! But mood swings are pretty bad."
"I've had absolutely no issues with Depo. I was on the pill for approx. 15 years and wish I had made the switch sooner. I'm generally prone to weight gain but didn't experience this at all after starting the shot; I started training for a fitness competition shortly after and was concerned it might be harder for me to cut weight but had no issues whatsoever. It's so much easier than having to take a pill every day and there are some great calendars online that tell you when you're able to go back for the next one and when you're deadline is. I have absolutely no problem recommending Depo to anyone."
"I loved the shot. I started the shot at the age of 16 and continued until I was 20. Yes you will bleed the first three months but mine was regular like my period from what I remember with a lil spotting in between. After three months my period was gone. Due to me being on it so long it took two years for my period to return which I didn't mind and I conceived about 4 moths after that. I'm now a full time mother of one beautiful healthy baby girl and have moved on to IUD Nexa due to me not wanting any more children and it being every three years. But honesty I loved the shot and only had weight gain."
"""I would of got the Depo shot 9/12/15 day after giving birth to my son. First I got it I was okay didn't really notice any change. But the second and third time I noticed instead of me to gain weight I was losing weight from a size 10 to a size 6. I would get moody bad headache no appetite.. My last shot 
Was in June 17 been off it 9 months trying for a baby still nothing 2 days 
Ago I was bleeding but not sure If that 
Was my period. Haven't got my period since March 2015 was pregnant then the bleeding after birth then I got the shot?"""
"""I opted the depo shot when I was 16. I was horrible at remembering to take medicine on time so I chose the shot. This is my experience. I can only speak for me.
I got the shot in May 2006. Stayed on track of the shot due to the reminder I had a Dr's appointment on such and such day. I had light, 3 day periods. Never a day longer, never a day shorter. I had no weight gain. I had no cramps. I had no breakouts. I did not experience any dizziness, shortness of breath, or headaches. I didn't lose my appetite. I had no troubles.
Then, like a genius, when I turned 18 I chose to get off the shot which was due in February. By April I had a positive pregnancy test.
Wasn't hard for my body to change from even after almost 2 years."""
"I gained weight, became a blubbering mess of emotions, got pregnant, and had a miscarriage all while getting the shot exactly on time."
"I received my first dose of Depo in Feb 2016. For ELEVEN months, I had nonstop bleeding. Every. Single. Day. I continued to get the shot every 3 months with the hope it would eventually stop, since I had no other side effects. Didn't affect my weight at all, no mood swings, no acne changes, no change in sex drive, etc. I went against my OBGYN's advice to take estrogen pills to stop the bleeding, as I wanted to see if my body would adjust naturally and I had noticed that the bleeding was slowly subsiding month by month. Sure enough, after my fourth dose of the shot (Jan 2017), my period completely stopped. Now, March 2017, I have had no spotting. If you can deal with a possible year long period, the end results are worth it."
"I have been on depo for 2 years and haven't had a period since going on this just the odd spot here and there before my next injection is due... but thats about the only good point for me. I'm currently waiting to be seen by a gynacologist due to suffering constant pain during sex and no sex drive at all! Which I believe is down to the depo, like others have said I've noticed weight gain too whilst on this as well as joint pains. One more good point used to have very bad skin but this seems to have cleared right up too since been on this so worth a try everyones different!"
"Everyone is different! however I do not suggest this medicine if can be avoided. Due to an abnormality in my blood, my only bc option was the depo shot. I have been miserable since day one and it's not getting any better. I read all the reviews against it but I was set that it would be different for me. Hard no! My acne tripled in severity. I experience shortness of breath and muscle fatigue on the daily. The mood swings have been out of control and ultimately I no longer feel like myself. This has really impacted my life and I strongly urge you to avoid."
"I don't see good reviews ever for any bc, even my friends had issues with depo but not me, I loved it! Everybody is different,  You just have to try it to see. I had some spotting at first but then no periods ever, no issues at all and I even lost weight.  After I was on it for a year and then stopped. It took 3 months after I didn't get my next dose to even get my period again. I'll go on it again when I'm in need of birth control."
"Depo really did not run well with me. Got my first shot in November and have bled for 3 months straight. Period-like bleed every. single. day without any break at all. Very heavy and clots too. Depo made me bloat awfully too, I'm guessing due to water retention but made me look almost pregnant! My skin got really bad on it too.. not sure if it was caused by the depo or not but my skin is usually fine. I won't be going back for my second shot.."
"Let me start by saying understand I absolutely hated this medicine.It made me gain tons of weight (60 lbs in the first 6 months), made hair grow darker on my body, acne, and lost every ounce of my sex drive (every single ounce). Basically, how this birth control works, is by turning you into an grumpy ugly troll (from my experience). The only good thing that came out of it was no period and I didn't get pregnant. And speaking of periods, since I've been off this medication, I have an abnormal cycle. I will get a 2-3 warning period, then it will be gone for about a week, then the real thing will start and last another week. Didn't have that problem until after this medication so I can only assume it is to be blamed."
"I been on the shot for 7 months now have had no side effects except weight gain which is a plus for me since I was 113 lbs and now am 135 lbs since I have always had so much difficulty gaining weight also after the 4th month my period went away don't know when and if I'll get it back which is also a good thing for me."
"If I could give this shot 0 stars I would. One is really pushing it. I got the depo in the middle of January, it is now the beginning of Feb & yesterday I was at the ER and my Drs office all day. I woke up having horrible cramps, then it led to blood clots with grayish tissue looking stuff inside, it was nothing I've ever seen before, I passed about 6 of those then the pain started to be mild again and easier to deal with. I've never had a miscarriage but If I could image what the pain felt like it would be that! DO NOT GET THIS SHOT. I'm scheduled for another & I'm cancelling, I would much rather take a pill every day! After dealing with it all day, and now I'm on the 11th day of my period, it was confirmed it was a side effect to the shot"
"I've been on the depo shot going on 3 years now. I've had absolutely no period the whole time, I've gained probably around 10 pounds, I have little to no sex drive, very moody every now and then and I get a little dizzy sometimes without reason? I'm going to get off the shot and move on to the pill, the depo shot is good to use for about a year maybe even 2 but I'm not liking my 3rd time around so far. Thank you for all the reviews really helped make up my mind about this shot, I hate not feeling like myself."
"I was on the Depo Shot for 3 years, in my last year being on it I went from weighing 125 pounds to 158 pounds. The weight gain was the only problem I had with this shot. I had a period every 3 months and it was always very light."
"My experience with the depo shot was great! I love it! I've been on it for 2 years now and I am currently still receiving the shot. Honestly, I've experienced no type of bad side effects from the depo shot. I didn't gain any weight, didn't become depressed, or have mood swings, it didn't lower my sex drive, or cause me any discomfort with my periods, etc. I literally haven't, and still don't experience anything bad with the depo shot til this day! I love the depo shot because it's something you don't have to worry about taking everyday. It's quick, easy and comfortable. And works amazing at preventing pregnancy! I 100% definitely recommend anyone to give the depo shot a try!"
"I was on the depo for a little under a year. The main reason I stopped taking it was because of the weight gain. Either way, while being on the shot, my period stopped completely, which is the main reason I chose it. I just recently switched to the pill and have been bleeding during sex, which is concerning, but never happened when I was on the shot. In all, when I was on the shot I probably gained a total of 10-15 pounds, which I can't fully blame the shot for. Other than that, I did not have any issues with any other side effects while I was using this form of birth control."
"I am at the end of the road. I am so depressed about this entire situation. I was on the shot at one point of time. It actually gets the job done, prevents pregnancy and stopped my period, however, the weight gain is real, mood swings, and I don't need anymore of those anyway. My bones popped every time I moved and I managed to gain 15 lbs, most of the weight went to my stomach and thats terrible considering I am only 5'2 and my normal weight is no more than 127 lbs. I LOOKED PREGNANT. I am getting very emotional about this entire situation because my periods are the worst, heavy bleeding, cramps are just unbelievable, so painful and lately they have been off track, but they still come EVERY month. I am stuck don't know what to do."
"My experience with the DEPO shot was horrible. I started off the first year on the pill and it was okay but it wasn't helping my bleeding at all and I was tired of taking the pill every day. I started the shot in September and the first two months were fine, I didn't bleed at all but when I tell you I had major mood swings it was terrifying. I would be depressed or really angry for about a week until it calmed down a little. I took the second shot thinking my body would start getting used to it and balancing everything out and the same thing happened again but I started to get more stomach pains and migraines. Now I just found out I have a tumor behind my eye! Thanks a lot DEPO"
"I am new at bc. I just had a baby in Nov. 2016 and got the shot in Dec. 2016 by Jan 16 I started spotting and I have my period now for two weeks non-stop. That has me in a terrible mood. Besides this no other complaints."
"I started this depo shot back in September 2016 because it was suggested that I got on birth control for a few reasons. The first two months (September and October) were great... I didn't even get my period the entire time. But once November (my last month) came, I was bleeding non-stop. It wasn't heavy bleeding but everyday I needed to wear a pad cause I was bleeding enough for one. The whole month of November I couldn't even have sex cause I was bleeding like crazy and it wouldn't stop! Not only that, but I really hated the way that this birth control made me feel... I was extremely moody and almost depressed for some of December. I was so happy when I was off the shot and I'm now on birth control pills and so far it's going well"
"Hello, I have thee most worst experience.... I was on the shot for about 2 years or a little over. The first 2 months of having it, I had serious blood clots and cramps something serious. After about a year in some months, I would only spot 1 wk before getting the shot and 1 wk after. Every time I had sex, I will have the worst abdominal Pain for like a hour. I ended up getting my last shot 11/2015 and was suppose to return 01/16 never went. After that by March, I had my period for a month in a half. Next period was in Oct, now on it since Jan 15th til now... And extra heavy"
"""I loved Depo! Was on it all together over 10 years with a break between 2009 and 2012 when we decided to have kids and now (since Sept 2016). Super convenient, effective, and it made my period completely stop. The only complaint I have was one that didn't show up until last couple of years (for which I ultimately stopped taking it): zero sex drive. I mean bad...to the point I almost got a divorce! In the past I've always had desire but it wasn't until the last 2-3 years where there's was nothing, no desire for my husband, , sex scenes in movies got no reaction...nothing!!! That is my only complaint but it was after many many years. 
Still, I would recommend Depo 100%"""
"It's been about 2 and a half weeks off depo now and I've seen a huge difference, in my mood, and in my skin especially. I was on the shot for about 2 years. The first half of the first yet I bled, not enough to need a tampon but enough to annoy me from time to time. It goes away. The last 6 months of using it I noticed a huge change in my skin. I've never had a problem with acne but after a year and a half on depo I started getting pimples on my forehead that wouldn't ever go away. I've never had problems with weight gain but did notice it made me a little more emotional then I had been off it. As for protection against getting pregnant it worked 100% on its own."
"I have severe swelling on my vagina every time I have sex and it's extremely painful and embarrassing please don't get this shot . I've been on been on the shot for two weeks and this has happened . I'm scared it will happen every time I have sex. And the body pains are even worse shooting down my back and head aches. I've never had any of this before using Depo. I was talked into birth control by my doctor and it was a big mistake listening to her. I'll never be on another form of birth control ever . I've had to much bad luck with a lot of them. :'( I wish I could get this out of my body but I have another three weeks ."
"So I've been using the shot for only two months now, nearing the third. it's pretty effective. I haven't gained much weight. I have spotting which my doctor told me that was normal. my only concern are the mood swings and low libido. I have a boyfriend and I feel like the side effects are making me question my attraction to him???? our relationship is good. I just don't understand why I feel how I do. I would be fine except for the constant depression I'm having. thinking about switching to another method, or sticking to just condoms but we all know how that goes."
"Ten years ago I was on the 'depo' shot and instantly began experiencing massive bleeds like excessively severe periods. My dr said you just have heavy periods  lets keep up with these shots! Well one day I woke up with a swollen stomach and started to pass out. When I made it to the hospital I had already lost OVER HALF my blood volume. I was operated on immediately.  They told me the depo thinned the lining of my uterus to the point of having just open veins... so the lining would clot with all the blood which then forced it UP through my tubes and into my abdominal cavity (retrograde menstruation). coma! Then it caused a massive TUMOR on my liver that I can't have surgery on. THIS SHOT MUCKED MY LIFE UP."
"Started at 18, was active, normal weight. Started gaining weight right away but didn't think much of it until I realized I was having to buy larger sizes, but didn't seem to have BC alternatives as I'm forgetful so pills wouldn't work. Over the course of 5 years, I have gained over 100 lbs, hair started greying early, loss of energy, loss of interest in life, and thinning hair, dry skin. Basically depo put me into menopause state, I was early 20s and felt decades older. I went from a size 12 to a size 24. And now 2 decades later, I still have that extra weight on me-no matter what it just won't come off! I am tired all the time, I hardly eat but still gain weight  easily. Depo ruined my life, it took me as a young adult and made me old."
"I had a boyfriend for a few months and our relationship started to get serious so I decided that I needed to start some sort of birth control. I am awful with remembering to take my medicine everyday. This shot was an easy fix for that. You get a shot then don't have to think about taking anything again for three months and you just go get another shot. This birth control is very effective and easy to keep up with, but one of the side effects was weight gain. I figured that I'd be fine since my doctor told me it just increases your appetite so as long as you watch what you eat you would be fine. This shot made me hungry all of the time. I gained 30 pounds from September to February. I got off of the shot and the weight is not easy to lose."
"I've had a very good experience with this form of birth control. No bleeding at all, no side effects, not an issues what so ever. I've been takin it for about 9 months now and feeling fine"
"In the beginning I had bad headaches, vomiting & non stop periods. Now after 12 months of this the only issue is weight gain. But having a small stomach I only gained 5 pounds. I have gained and lost (w/o exercising). I would say this is really effective but with side effects not so much. I went to see my doctor about my periods last time I went in she said if it doesn't stop after this cycle I should change birth controls. And is has she was right! If you think you will stop your periods so soon stop assuming and give depo a try! Its super effective and I'll definitely continue using it!"
"I have been on it for 16 years when I just had my first child I was18, I have no menstruationl,  I have gained of course,  I feel upper stomach pains and was even being treated for ulcers and am endoscopy showed I didn't have ulcers, I have acne which does not seem to go, I have lost interest in sex etc... It is today that I have come to learn more about Depo after reading comments here.  I did not know it's not supposed to be used for more than2 years. I had my shot on 9/12/17 . I will switch to something else.  Thanks all for your comments."
"""Despite my weight/exercise habits, I have genetically high blood pressure and cannot take birth control with estrogen. 
The first two injections are the most difficult due to the spotting and bloating - seems to be the case for many. What I found to help is incorporating a large amount of soy/flaxseed into my diet - it completely stopped the spotting. I suppose the plant estrogens in both help when you're not getting estrogen from BC. 
I haven't experienced any moodiness or hair loss like some complain about. 
I take extra calcium/magnesium/vitamin D as bone density is a concern on this shot long term."""
"I was on this birth control for 6 months and I have nothing negative to say about it. I didn't have a period the entire time I was on it. I didn't deal with any of the side effects. Although, I did experience hair loss. Which isn't a problem to me because it grows back."
"I have been off Depot for almost 6 year so and I have several side effects from this shot that don't think will ever go away. It has really messed me up in don't know if anyone has the same issues I get severe migraines monthly and a rash that itches like no other where the injected the shot in my butt every month right before my period starts. It's really annoying. I am wondering if anybody else is experiencing the same kinds of things that I am. I have a lot of pain in my hands I get tingling in my hands and my feet."
"I have used this for about 5 months now and I have felt nothing but crappy the whole time. I throw up almost all the time. Feel exhausted constantly. Get diahrrra when I'm vomiting. Can't sleep well. Crazy mood swings. I'm not pregnant, so it obviously works. It just has gnarly side effects. I've see many others with the same issues. I chose it initially because I thought it would be easier than taking a pill every day. I didn't want to get any of the inserts. So, this seemed the best option for me. When I saw the side effects I didn't think much of it since I would have those kinds of symptoms when I was on my period or a few days before I would get it. But it the symptoms are to the extreme. my period is also lighter and longer."
"I gained so much during the injections. I weighed 120 and was happy with my weight. Just after 6 months I weighed 145. I got off it because the weight gain was too much. My pants won't fit, shirts won't fit. I seriously need new clothes. I am so self conscious now and I never was before this. I just switched to the IUD and I love it. I'm still trying to lose the weight. Right now I weigh 143 and its so hard to lose the weight. I exercise everyday and eat healthy but its a tough process.  I don't recommend going on this birth control. Go for something else."
"This was my first and only method of bc since 2001. So I can tell my experience with depo was great. No periods just spoting before shot was due. No pregnancies. Weight gained I can say I like to eat so I can't blame depo for that. Now I am thinking to do the nexplanon implant but I am scared of all the bad reviews I read thats why I decided to review depo who has being very effective to me, our bodys react different to each medicine and I hoping is better than depo or I will switch back."
"I got on the shot when I was 17. I'm 18 now. I've gotten it roughly 3 or 4 times. I had always had AWFUL periods and at the time it had been four years since I had gotten my first period. Initially I was scared to get the shot due to the things I had heard. I heard that it could cause weight gain, mood swings, excessive eating, and it could even result in making your period worse. Once I got the shot, I had my period maybe three times after that and it lasted for about three days each time. I haven't had a period for six months which is amazing when it used to be something I struggled with often. I weighed 117 pounds when I got my first shot. I weight 114 now. At first I was a bit on edge with my attitude but it was nothing serious."
"""I am on my 2nd shot of my depo, first shot was amazing but the second one which I had on 31 November went completely down hill, I haven't been on my period but when having sexual intercourse with my boyfriend I bleed! I don't even have to have sex. It's every time I orgasm I will bleed, as you can imagine for a 19 year old girl that's pretty embarrassing. I'm not the only one who has suffered in this way and I've also had 2 pregnancies scares. I have regular anxiety and depression also It's literally ruining my life!  
Really wouldn't recommend!"""
"""I have been getting the shot since 2012, before having children. After a few years I was scared hearing that this shot causes infertility so I stopped in 2015' within 4 month a was pregnant!
I had a good experience with the shot. My weight has been up and down but nothing drastic. The shot definitely protected me from getting pregnant and thats what I wanted %u263A I will continue with it because  not sure about iuds yet"""
"Hair loss, weight gain, deforming cystic acne, hot flashes! At 32, after 2 years on depo I was told by my gyn that my symptoms weren't depo, but that I was 'in a new season of life'. I. I no longer trust that doctor, I will never take birth control again. I'm not 10 months past my last shot and just beginning to see signs that my hair is growing in, my acne is getting better even though permanent scarring has already taken place. This drug is the worst choice. Doctors don't tell you that you'll get osteoporosis,lose your hair, get acne, hot flashes and gain weight. They tell you it's safe and they tell you to take calcium and vitamin D. It is not safe!"
"My first birth control was the patch which I liked, no side effects. It was a pain though cause it would always fall off, so I decided to get the shot. My first shot I got extremely emotional. But that didnt last long. Eventually my period went away and I didnt experience any side effects. I chose to get off of it because I wanted to have a baby and I got pregnant seriously like a couple weeks after I stopped it. While I was breastfeeding I got on the pill but switched back to the shot. I spotted and bled more when I got the shot after I had the baby but it wasnt to bad. It might have contributed to me gaining 5 or more lbs but im not to sure. Overall i love this birth control!"
"So after the initial wave of sickness I went to school. I honestly thought I had picked up some kind of sickness! Then came the hormone distater.. I've felt like I've been PMSing x100 constantly. It NEVER stops. I'm an emotional wreck, I don't feel like I can function or make any rational decisions! I'm scared! It's going to be an insane challenge to deal with this for 2 more months.. god help me!! In addition, I've gained a little weight and had a huge increase in acne (again like being on your period X100). But hey at least I'm not pregnant......would never recommend or do this EVER again"
"""I have been getting the shot since I was 16 (Now 22). No weight gain, no increased appetite for me but everyones bodies are different. I wasnt fond of the shot the first 6 months but all of my minor side effects dissappeared and my body became use to it.
Once I wanted to conceive it took only 3 cycles to become pregnant. Now that I have my daughter I will be going back on the shot and hoping I still have a good outcome with it."""
"19y/o been on depo for a little over a year, it's great. I haven't noticed any extreme side effects. I've been really sluggish and lethargic but I was already depressed before the depo shot so I can't say if it's related or not. Also I started smoking around the same time so it could just be that. I've had acne since I was 11 and since taking depo its cleared up a bit but don't know if it's from the depo. The only thing that sucks is I'm pretty sure my sex drive has been affected by the shot but it's not a big deal. I missed my last shot because I moved so I'm thinking of switching to the implant because I hate driving 45 mins to the closest PP but depo has worked so well for me I don't know if it's worth switching at this point"
"I had my first shot of depo 5 weeks after I had my second baby. I am breastfeeding so my options were the depo shot or the progesterone only pill (which the dr said is not as effective). At the time of my first shot I was cleared to workout so I immediately went back to my workout routine. 4 months after my first baby I was 10 lbs under pre-baby weight and by the time she was 6 months old I had gained some muscle back and looked and felt like myself again. I weighed 175 lbs at my first shot of depo when my baby was 5 weeks old and I'm now 170 and she is 5 months old. I didn't gain weight, but it basically stopped my weight loss. If you are at all concerned about weight loss do not take this drug!! I just want it out of my system for good."
"""I got the shot May 5, right after a period. I only did one round of the BC. I had two weird kindof super-low flow and darkish periods over the next two months, that both gradually lightened until I had no period. I got my period back Dec 2 of that year. I had a lot of hormonal issues however that were sorting themselves out while I didn't have my period. Mostly it was a lot of emotional extremes. Little things bothered me like they were big things. 
Overall, I'd take this birth control again. I'm certainly not pregnant, and I certainly got my money's worth out of the shot. It cost me a $30 co-pay with Blue Cross in NC, plus the price of the two appointments I needed. One consultation, and one 3-minute appointment of getting the shot."""
"I've been on depo since I was 18, I'm now 23. I"ve had no side effects, thankfully. It's really just hit or miss, you wont know until you give it a try. Only complaint I have is my arm is REALLY sore the first day & sometime through the second day after you get the shot. If you do choose to use this form of birth control find out your recommended dose of vitamin C & D, you definitely need these vitamins while taking this drug! I get my shot every 3 months at plan parenthood & pay out of pocket $125, so it's about $40/mo? NOT TOO BAD! I've never became pregnant while using depo & I only have spotting during the two weeks my depo is due so about once every 3 mo."
"I was on it for about 5 "cycles" which is about 15 months. After the first month I did not get my period anymore OR spotting. I have been off of it for almost a year and still haven't gotten my period. For me it was quick easy convenient, I had no side effects what so ever...except the WEIGHT GAIN. I started right after I had my daughter and I was about 215. I am now pushing 270 (don't judge). I fully understand the shot itself cannot make you gain weight, it just gives you more of an appetite but my god, that's a lot of weight in a year and a half. I am also convinced it messed with my metabolism but there's no medical evidence I can find to support that. It's also scary how strong of a dose of hormones it is."
"I've been on the shot for about 2 and a half years. The first few times I got the shot I had some inconsistent spotting. I could never tell when it would occur. After a while my body adjusted and I haven't bled since. Before I got in the shot I weighed about 98 pounds and now I'm at 110. THE SHOT DOES NOT MAKE YOU GAIN WEIGHT. The shot increases your appetite and it's what you eat and how much you eat that makes you gain weight. However no one informed me about the fact that it weakens your bones until about 1 month ago."
"If I could rate this product less than 1 I would. AWFUL! I was never told by my provider it could cause fertility issues in the future I have been off it for almost a year and still don't have a regular period back. My period symptoms have increased in intensity. It also over the period of 18 months I was using it caused me severe anxiety and weight gain. I would NEVER recommend this to anyone."
"""I have been on the depo injection since I was 15 and I'm now 30....its been so efficiant! I have gained some weight in that time but that could easily be down to just growing up and life style choices. I had my period for a couple of months after I started on it but haven't had a period since then. I do now go for a bone scan every 2 years to check for osteoporosis but so far everything has been fine. I have however started to take calcium vitamins to just give me a boost without eating a lot of dairy. 
Only downside I can say about it is it has given me some skin issues or I believe it has contributed to making psorisis and ezcema worse."""
"""For the first few months, I bled everyday. After 2-3 injections, the bleeding stopped for the most part, with occasional random bleeding now and then, and light bleeding near the time I was due for my next shot.
Yes, you WILL very likely experience the ""breakthrough bleeding"" side effect, and it can be annoying having to use pads/tampons constantly, but if you can deal with that, it is a great birth control solution.
I have smoked cigarettes while using Depo. This caused an increase in bleeding when I regularly smoked. I noticed after 3-4 injections when my bleeding lessened to almost a stop, if I smoked cigarettes, I would bleed later. So if you smoke, this might affect how much/often you bleed."""
"I stopped taking depo because of the depression and lack of sex drive it was causing me. I had the spotting in the beginning for about 3 months and after the second shot I felt dizzy all the time. I'm in the process of getting it out of my system and it's an absolute nightmare. Since skipping my last shot I've had heaving spotting and headaches almost every day. I can't sleep through the night at all and I've been having an increase in nightmares that I'm certain is related to the birth control. My dreams were never this bad before. My hair also started thinning badly and I had to cut about a foot of it off. I loved my long hair. DO NOT get this shot. The side effects are not worth the risk."
"I've had nothing but issues but I have not had a pregnancy scare at all and that's why I rated it 3/10. I received my shot September 19, I got my period October 14, bled for 21.5 days and then 2.5 days later started to bleed again for, so far, another 10 days. In 34 days, I've bled 31.5 days. It's absolutely draining, my hormones are out of control, and it's impeding on every day life. I'm being treated for acne with Sprionolactone and my cystic acne came back with a vengeance. If I knew any of this would be a potential side effect, I would've just waited for my referral to my gyno and deal with the 1 BC method rather than 2 (condoms). Overall, this has been a TERRIBLE experience and I can't wait until it wears off. (I only had one shot)."
"""Have been on depo for about 9 years now and have No periods. When I first started depo I was bleeding for about a month til it just went away. 
Probably gained some weight, I feel the depo has me very moody and also makes me feel tired, it gives me lots of nervousness but surely prevents pregnancy, I'm not sure that it's safe to be on depo for a long time because it can cause weakness in bones, so consult your Dr on how long you should use it."""
"I started when I was 16 and am now almost 21. I love it, I didn't experience weight gain although I did bleed consecutively for five months after being on it for four years (this last year has been fine). It thinned my uterine lining immensely but with a few estrogen pills it was fixed."
"""I started using Depo consistently about a year ago. A break down of my body: Oily skin, gains weight easily, depression, and high sex drive.
On the shot I did not get any break outs, in fact, it helped with my acne a little. I also did not gain weight but lost some weight. Periods got lighter at first and then stopped completely (which I loved). 
The cons were: mood swings, loss in sex, and vaginal dryness. 
I also did get my period back within the 3 months.
If I didn't like sex so much I would continue to use this form of birth control."""
"I started this birth control back when I was 18 the first few months it wasn't too bad, there wasn't any spotting, and I didn't have any periods. Toward the end I'd say the last year and a half (was on it till around 20 ish) I would constantly bleed it wasn't very heavy, but enough to be extremely annoying. Especially, since the spotting is supposed to happen towards the beginning and stop later on. On top of that it left me in a bad mood most of the time and because of that I certainly wouldn't go back on it. I'm now 23 almost 24 and I hate my body for rejecting it because now I'm stuck with the pills, I don't have any problems with the pill (Ortho-Tri Cyclen), but it is inconvenient. It did do its primary job and prevent any pregnancy."
"I have been on Depo for almost two years and it works like a charm! I never go past the 5 day period to get the shot and it is crucial for it to work to not exceed the time of your next shot. When I first started I did bleed for a month but it was not heavy. My periods lasted 8 days and cramps were horrible before the shot so it wasn't that big of a deal for me. Now I don't get periods ever and ever so often i might spot for a day or two. To be completely frank my partner and I do not use protection and I have not gotten pregnant so as far as contraceptives go this one is wonderful! I did experience dryness at first but it has since gone away."
"I started the shot when I was 17 after a miscarriage, my period has always been irregular but once I started the shot I bled for a month straight. After that first month I stopped having periods all together. Before I got on the shot my weight was consistent always stayed around 120.. but after my weight started going up, by the time I was 18 I was going on 140. During my second semester In college I got off the shot because I didn't like the fact that I was gaining so much weight, before school started back I got back on the shot bc it was much easier than taking the pills, and my period was a mess I never knew when it was coming so I wanted to put a stop to that. Now I'm 19 and pushing 170 I have gotten off the shot and REFUSE to take it"
"Started depo when I was 18, never had a period after, stopped taking it when I was 24 to start a family.  It took 4 months for menstruation to start again and only 3 months after that to conceive.   After pregnancy I was put back on, got 3 series of shots before we wanted another baby(no period in between).  Only took a month for my period to return and another month after that to conceive. Also, after this pregnancy I started the depo again. I was 6 weeks postpartum and got the shot while on my 4th day on my period, (which usually lasted 7 days) the next day my period stopped. It is my go to form of birth control!"
"I was 16 when I started depo and almost 18 when I stopped. I have always been very regular hormonally, my periods have always been around 3 days & fairly light with minor cramping. The first 2 shots (six months) were the worst -I experienced bad vaginal dryness which made intercourse painful, and the first & last period I had was horrible - heavy bleeding, kind of chunky, with severe migraine and cramps. After that everything seemed to smooth out. I stopped having my period, vaginal dryness went away, everything was very regular down there. The downside I experience was I began to exhibit severe depression as time went on. I lost 30 pounds, I went from 120 to 90 pnds in two years. Great birth control but I feel like it ruined me mentally :("
"When I was 13 I was rushed to the hospital because I was very anemic due to extreme heavy periods, this wasn't even comparable to anyone I know because I would be changing my pad/tampon every hour and yes it was the haviest pad/tampon there was. After I got my blood transfusion my doctor put me on the birth control pills for 4 day. The worst 4 days of my life I threw up like crazy so then my doctor said I should try the depo shot (which I've been on for almost a year) it's the most wonderful thing ever created! My cramps are gone and I had a little bit of spotting on my first shot but that was normal but now I don't get any bleeding and feel wonderful. Yes, I did gain 10lbs but if you go to the gym you can burn it off very easily."
"I've had a Horrible experience. I only got one shot and I won't be returning to get the second one. It's been a month now and I'm still on my period.I HATE IT!!"
"I started a pill at first, in 2011. Istarted having terrible periods, so bad I would miss class, so in 2012 I started the depo shot. Periods and symptoms went away just like that! I did gain some weight, especially in my breasts, but at the same time I started eating a lot of fast food and going out to eat when I started working in fast food. My doctor switched me to this pill for a month that started my period so I switched right back to depo that next month! Rating 8/10 because I'm scared of getting news I won't be able to conceive because of other articles I've read about the shot."
"I've been on Depo full time since I was 22. I'm now 34 and still on it. I am so in love with this birth control, it's almost like an addiction for me. In the beginning I did have some side effects with the first few rounds of shots. Headaches 4 to 5 days a week, but nothing a couple of Tylenol couldn't handle. Some slight weight gain, and mood swings. After a week on the first shot, my periods stopped completely. I have not had a full on period in 12 years. I have spotted a few times, but that happens maybe twice a year and even then it's only for a day at the most. I'm still having mood swings, but those only seem to be during the week of when my shot is due. It absolutely fits into my plans of NEVER having a child. It's the best!"
"I have been on depo since I was 13 I am about to be 21 now. I never spotted and after I got my shot my period were officially gone. I was actually recommended to try depo because my friend was the pills and got prego and decided to do the shot and never got pregnant. But now that I'm at the age of possibly wanting a child I don't know how long it will take to conceive. I did suffer from depression after the shot. But I never gained weight. I actually did the opposite. I lost 50 pds the first year. Spotting during your first shot is actually normal.. the shot is trying to force the periods to stop which will cause cramps so its normal! I just got lucky. I definitely recommend this."
"I got my first shot in August this year 2016 because my boyfriend from US will come and we don't want to get pregnant. At first it was awesome I feel better no heavy menstrual period, crampings and headache..But after 3 weeks from the shot  I  started to experience spottings, and it never stop...It is really uncomfortable wearing the whole time  bunch of panty liners..And of course when in sexual intercourse it was very messy and we need to used newspaper to cover our bed before sex..Having sex with spotting is not good...So I will not get another shot had to stop this..Never do it again it's scary when you had blood or spotting continuesly.My boyfriend told to get  checked and must see a doctor right away.."
"""I actually went through hell with having the pill (had to change to 4 different contraceptive pills in 18 months) due to heavy bleeding and horrible cramps that would last up to 3-5 weeks at a time even after settling with puberty it was horrible. 
I then went onto the rod where it made it a whole lot worse (tried 4 different hormone intakes with the rod but to no avail) still had heavy bleeding and cramps to the point where I wanted to stab my uterus to pieces. 
I'm 25 now and have been on the depo shot for 9 months and I have not had any issues of anything I had with other contraceptives. It's a really good source for those who have been through similar to what I've been through."""
"Received the shot around a month ago and my face has never been so broken out. I'm getting acne in places on my face where I never get acne."
"Okay Ladies! DO NOT GET THIS SHOT! I was 15 when i first got the shot. I was on it for a yr. And now i have been trying to conceive for 9 years and NO LUCK i am now 25 years old and still i have 0 period! I want to have a baby so badly and i cannot due to the fact i jacked up my hormones with this shot. But it IS very effective at preventing pregnancy. But if you plan on having children DONT GET THIS SHOT!!!"
"I first got the shot In 2013 but I didn't like it I was bleeding for 3 months as well so I never got it again until this June after Inga my daughter I'm on my second shot I've only bled for one day so far and only had a migraine for about 2 days so this time around my experience is better than my first"
"I'm 24 & been on depo for 7 straight years. I got on it young so it wasn't to be used as a contraceptive but to help my very heavy periods. I bleed heavily  7 days straight, ridiculous cramps and migraines. I actually spotted for 3 months straight when I started it!! I was ready to call it quits when all of a sudden my periods stopped completely after! I was elated. No more cramps! I started to spot around the time for my next shot,  for a few years but as of now I never bleed. I may get light cramps for a day. I never experienced any weight gain or craziness from it. However, I do now suffer from depression and constant irritability... But my life and work is very stressful so I don't feel like it's the depo but it could be worsening it."
"Please do not take this poison! I was spotting for a full month!! The spotting would be every other month and I would still get my period. I also got severe leg pain and went to the doctor to find out that my vitamin d levels were in the single digits because of it.!!"
"""This is the worst! I had my baby girl in March 2016, I decided I dont want to get pregnant soon, having 2 kids now, for now my baby days are over.my age of 23 I can't get ""fixed"", so since I got pregnant with #2 from the pill I decided to go for it and give the depo shot a chance, well, it was the WORST decision I could have ever made, hell I'd rather become pregnant again then keep going with these side effects of being constantly mad and angry, always yelling at my 3 year old and my other half, (my baby girl is always smiles so I never get frustrated over crying or fussy ness, she doesn't cry lol).
Keep in mind, I had my LO in march 2016, it's all most Oct 2016 and I'm STILL on my period, EVERYDAY! 
Will not be going back for my next shot"""
"When I started getting the depo shot I was 15. It was a lot easier to do that than have a 15 year old remember to take a pill everyday. The only downsides to this shot were the constant hunger and the going back to the doctor every 3 months to get another one. I did experience weight gain, but I mean c'mon, if you're going to eat more, then you have to exercise more. I took it for 3 years and had not gotten pregnant. Just use common sense and you will absolutely love the shot!"
"I beg you ladies that are wondering if they should give this a try to do their research. I'm 24 and have never been on birth control until this year. I asked my doctor for his recommendation and he said depo provera is very effective. I got one shot - which lasts 90 days. At first it was great, as someone who had bad cramping and heavy periods, it was amazing to not feel pain nor experience heavy bleeding. After about 30 days that all changed. I started spotting every single day. Every single day! You need a lot of liners/pads/tampons. It has now been over 100 days & the spotting has not stopped. Some days are much heavier than others. The drug has worn off but the effects continue. I obviously never went back for another shot. Don't do it!"
"I am 13 years old and I used to have horrible cramps to the point where I would wake up in the middle of the night screaming in pain nothing would help. (Advil, or heating pads) I also had really bad acne and no face wash would help. Tampons were also super uncomfortable. After I started using depo all my cramps were gone I had no period, all my acne was gone, I definitely recommend this it changed my life."
"I am writing this review because most people don't bother writing reviews when they have a positive experience, and it can sway others not to use depo when many women don't have issues. I have been on depo consistently for 5 years now, with zero complaints. In the first year I had irregular periods, and stopped having them completely after that. I get about one period per year now, if that. I did not get any acne, but I've never had acne problems anyways. I do believe depo causes weight gain, although it could just be because I started taking it at 18 years old (about 120 lbs) and now I'm 23 (145 lbs). I can't say for sure if it's the depo, but I have to work out just to stay the same. All around though, I would recommend depo 100%!"
"After trying every single birth control besides the depo shot and the iud I decided to give the shot a chance. Worst idea of my life. Iv been on it for 8 months and I can't wait to never get my next shot. As soon as I got my first shot I noticed my appetite  increase. I was never full, I could eat all day. After I ate breakfast I couldn't wait for lunch. All I wanted to do was eat and sleep all day. I called my doc and she said to give it 3 months. After 3 months I was depressed I hated my life and I couldn't stop eating. 6 months in I gained 21 pounds. I didn't want to wake up ever. I couldn't wait to get home and go to sleep after work. All I keep thinking about is suicide. I will never go on this birth control again."
"ok first and foremost depo is very effective in preventing pregnancy. BUT it has horrible side effect during and after you on it. while i was on it i broke out like crazy, was moody and achy. I never had perfect skin but this did crazy things to my skin. It also made my nipples extremely sore to the point i thought i may have been pregnant. Coming off of it , i just decided not to get my next shot. I was on it for 3 months so  only took one injection. I got my period a week before i was due for my next shot, i don't know if that mmeantthe shot wore off faster than expected or it meant the levels from the hormones was decreasing. my period was extremely heavy and i bled for over two weeks straight. I also noticed coming off of the shot and while on it had really bad isomnia. I would not get on it again. to top it off it has horrible long term effects if your on it too long."
"I was on the depo for about 5 years. I stopped taking it February of 2015 and then I got pregnant in July of 2015. The reason why I stopped taking it was to give my body a break. You shouldn't not have a period that's part of being a woman but I liked the idea. I only got on the shot because I had really bad migraines and really bad cramps. It all went away when I got my first shot. So that was all good. But then I started taking the shot after I had my daughter and it's been the worst experience yet. I was without the shot for almost a year and when I started taking it again I had extreme anxiety (I still do I just stopped taking the shot) I have had weight loss and gain. mood swings and depression. Wouldn't take this shot again."
"As far as birth controls go, this is slightly more tolerable than any of my past experiences (not saying much). My first shot was August 2nd. It's September 12th. I have actually lost weight, which I attribute to the Ketogenic diet I started 2 weeks ago. My acne got worse at first, but I discovered cell salt #12 (srsly look it up #lifechanged) and my skin has never been better. My maybe-S/O mentioned that I've been moody, but I chalk it up to it making me less tolerant of his shit ;) I've been on my period since August 16th, so I've been without sex for a while (might explain the moodiness). Point: is any birth control worth it? Lower sex drive? Weight gain? Irregular periods? Change in personality? Let's use condoms, y'all <3"
"I received my first shot in March 2016 after being on the pill for 5 years. At first I loved the shot. I didn't have to worry about taking it at a set time every day (which I was terrible at) and my period has completely gone away. About a week before I was due for the second shot, I noticed an increase in my acne on my face, chest, and back as well as some spotting. That was the first week of June 2016 and I haven't stopped spotting since. My acne has also gotten significantly worse and I have never struggled with acne like this before in my life - even as a teenager. My stress level has increased significantly and I've gained over 20 pounds since June 2016. I will NOT be going back in November to get my 4th shot."
"My daughter took this drug only ONE time and the side effects were horrible. She is never taking another. Her injection was in late June. In that time she has gained 17 pounds where with her level of diet and exercise she should have been losing weight. She has horrible acne, where she's never had it before, she's constantly tired despite getting more sleep per night than she has in years, and she's irritable and depressed. Her doctor thought it was worth a try because she had such painful periods, but here's the thing. DP is a hormone. It disrupts the hormonal balance in your body (which is why you can't get pregnant) but hormones are not something that you should mess with. ONE little shot, and the side effects can last for months."
"I just hit the 1 year mark taking the depo shot and decided to get off of it for multiple reasons. I was bleeding the first 3 months straight  I was on it but they assured me it would go away and it did. I has mood swings like no other but the biggest turn off for me was the weight gain. I gain 31lbs over a year time frame WHILE going to the gym 3-4 times a week and eating healthy. I thought something was wrong and so did my primary doctor so he did blood work on me an i'm as healthy as a horse! He mentioned my birth control and it all made so much sense. My friend and I started it around the same time and she was 123lbs, a year later she gained 36lbs and almost weighs 160lbs. I also lost my sex drive."
"DO NOT GET DEPO-PROVERA INJECTION! I decided on this form of birth control to help my painful periods, and hopefully to make them go away completely. I liked how I wouldnt need to worry about taking a pill everyday.. But... about a week after I got my injection I started bleeding.. A LOT. It WAS NOT just "spotting", it was a full on period. I thought, okay maybe I just need to get used to this new birth control. It has now been 4 months, and I am still bleeding. I saw my doctor to tell her about this crazy bleeding, about 3 months in from getting the injection, and at three months, you are supposed to get your next injection. Of course I did not get it again, but still continue to bleed. So please, do not get the depo shot! nightmare!"
"I'm on my 2nd shot right now. My first dose was scary. My body reacted in the worst ways. My blood sugar was dropping (I don't have any issues w that) I felt dizzy, And hot i couldn't stop the constant Hot flashes. I experienced some of the worst mood swings EVER freaking out & feeling out of control of my body and emotions. Even my family was telling me to stay away from them. BUT After the 2-3 week adjustent It was amazing..no problems.. I bloated a little for about a week before I got my next dose. after the next dose I adjusted for a week and I've been good to go!! If you can get through hell week it's worth the no periods."
"I got on depo in April and a little bit later around may I noticed weight gain in my arms not so much my stomach in July I went to take my second shot and every since the second shot I always feel bloated I have gain extreme weight in my stomach and face . I have always been thick but never had a tummy now I have a gut . I'm always hungry irritated all the time and the worst mood swings. "
"Bn on-NuvaRng-MiniPill-OrthoEvra&Xulanepatch-Currently on wk2 of 2ndShotDepo here we go:- Depo better than the Nuva Ring, Mini Pill, Patch because nothing to worry about other than the appt for the shot every 3 months,great for busy women.- Depo doesnt require you to wear something like a ring, patch or implant.- Thumb up4 the ring but we have furry dog & hair would end up tangled around in the ring when id remove yes thats super gross.-on mini pill while breast feeding my kid, overall i didn't enjoy the lack of estrogen. See depo review.-Patch was itchy, sad when Xulane was intro'd, but i adapted. Then I had a migraine/aura that sent me to ER so Depo was chosen so I have no sex drive and my discharge is thick clumpy during intercourse. I miss patch"
"This is my 6th cycle shot. I originally did pills. But due to not wanted a period at all. I decided to take the shot. Im plus size 250. 5.9 i didnt gain any weight. I do seem tired more and the numbness in my legs does happen. But with speaking to my nurse. They say it take calcium out our bones. So. Drink milk take vitamins. The mood swings and depression. I believe. I am more irritable. I think thats a lil me too. Not the shot. To clear up. I love it. No cycle. No worries to take a pill. Make sense to me."
"Side effects are the worst.. This shot has ruined my life for the past 3 weeks I've been on it.. I have body tremors,hair loss,headaches,nausea, dizzy,tiredness,weakness and that's just some.. I have gotten anxiety I dont wanna do anything besides be in my house ive never been this kind of person and its scary... Poison to my body... Do your research ...."
"Definitely research before you start this. I didn't because my dr prescribed it and I thought they wouldn't give me something this awful. I've gotten 4 shots and am just now realizing all the issues I've had are because of it. I have no sex drive extremely moody and have had weight gain and eat right and work out daily. I'm a happy person and have been irritable and short tempered since I've been getting the shot. I highly recommend researching anything but especially shots because once you get that shot its in your system and you have to wait for it to get out"
"I was on the Depo for over 9 months. Its a very great birth control because you only need to get it every three months. The only thing I hated was gaining weight. I was 120 pounds when i started. I now weigh 145 and I cant seem to control the weight. I never struggled with my weight. That is why Im getting off of it and I'm switching to Para-guard IUD next week. It was a great birth control to use, and if it wasnt for the weight I gained i would have continued it. Beware of the weight you will gain with Depo!"
"I tried it once my sophomore year in high school. I bled the entire time and tried to commit suicide. It made me crazy. I had many mental breakdowns. I got back on the pill for a year then got back on the shot because I can't remember to take any meds. This time around was better, but I have gained weight I can't get rid of. I don't get a period and because of that I always have yeast infections. It's effecrive, but many of the women I know say their ovaries went into "hibernation." Do not try it."
"I just had my 3rd shot and I'm very happy with it. Before I got on the shot i had tried several different pills. They all made me have mood swings and depression, and I felt tired all the time. My doctor talked me into trying the depo shot and it has been amazing. I feel full of energy and I haven't had any mood swings and best thing is I haven't had a period since!!!! The only side effect that I don't like is the weight gain. I have been working out like crazy to prevent the weight gain, which I haven't gained any weight but I can't loose any. So basically I'm working out just to stay the same. This sucks but if this is the worst of the side effects for me then I can deal with that."
"I'm 18 and I've had 4 Depo shots. So many things in my body and personality have changed and I have just today realized that it's all because of this shot. I have had horrible stomach pains almost every day sometimes multiple times a day, sometimes coming with diarrhea. Also I've had no sex drive, mood swings, terrible anxiety, and depression. I am never getting this shot again, any other form of birth control would be better then this one. Do NOT try the Depo shot."
"I wish I could take it back. Terrible experience. I had horrible muscle aches where the shot went in for 5 months. I felt bloated all the time. I bled every single day, EVERY DAY. It was dark red blood. I only did the shot once. Six months later I "sort of" got my period back. I am still waiting for a normal cycle, I will wake up and not know how much I will bleed for the day. I got very emotional when I didn't go back in to get the second shot. Really screws with your hormones. It does what it is supposed to do but the side effects are not worth it to me. Never ever again. Stay away."
"I've gotten 2 shots so far, and I'm pretty sure it's making me completely crazy.  Even scarier, since I started this medicine, I started getting crazy headaches. I was at work and my face started going numb and then I started seeing all these bright lights and then I couldn't see out of my left eye... Btw I'm 28. I haven't gotten pregnant, so it's effective for that, however I would NOT recommend this. I've always been moody, but the feelings I've experienced with this are so overwhelming sometimes... it feels like I'm going to have a panic attack like every other day. It's good if you want to be depressed, literally question your mental health, bleed every single day ... Totes switching."
"I have only had my first dose- 4 weeks in and I already know I'm never getting it again. My mood swings have been terrible... I feel like crying for no reason, worse than any other birth control I've taken in the past. To top it all of my skin is reacting terribly. I have a rash all over my legs and it's starting to breakout on my arms too! Luckily it's not red, but it's still uncomfortable. I'm terrified of how the next 2 months are going to be... Broke down crying to my fiancé begging him to help me get through this. Wouldn't recommend it to ANYONE"
"""I was on depo 14 years ago. A jerk obgyn gave me this birth control without informing me what it was, he just said a birth control shot. It ruined my life, and partly responsible for my divorce with my ex husband. I only took this birth control for the first three months.
 I gained weight.
Had psychotic thoughts about killing myself and my children. After that happened I immediately went to my doctor for a antidepressant.
Extreme fatigue.
Had awful mood swings, highly emotional and angry.
I felt dizzy, had hot flashes, and had migraines that were nonstop.
I had weird female issues. Weird growths on my female parts, UTIs, yeast infections, blocked ducts down there, a weird skin growth..
I had welt like acne. 
No sex drive..."""
"I got my first shot in June 2016 thinking it would be a better alternative from the problems I was having with the pill. I ended up bleeding for a whole 3 months which defeated the purpose of getting it for birth control because I couldn't have sex anyways because of it. I got a second shot in August and the bleeding stopped but I started getting headaches and feeling dizzy frequently. My next shot is scheduled for October but I refuse to get another after reading other women's reviews and horror stories. The side effects are insane and not worth the risk. I would never recommend the shot to anyone."
"Seriously messes with my emotions so much. I already live with anxiety & depression and the Depo just makes it so much more worse! I hate it. I get pissed off at things I shouldn't get pissed off at! I have all the period symptoms (cramps, emotions out of whack, retaining water and horrible craving for sweets) and irregular bleeding. I'm gaining so much weight and I'm not even eating unhealthy, I have a strict diet and workout and I stil gain about a pound or 2 every 2 weeks. Do NOT recommend the Depo to anyone. This sucks."
"I took this because I worked such a crazy schedule and taking a pill at the same time everyday was impossible. So that's the ONLY perk with this guy. The side effects were so noticeable. I rarely ever stopped spotting. I'd have my period and then spot like ever other few days. It transformed me into an angry crazy person and took months to get weened out of my system. I would never take this again."
"So I am 19 years old it is August (a month after my birthday) so I have been on depo for there years exactly. My first couple weeks I had nausea and headaches. After my third shot I had no menstrual cycle anymore. I will say for this form of birth control is awesome. I was with a guy for a long time and never used a condom and here I am three years later and never had a pregnancy scare. So yes as birth control it works perfectly. However, throughout the years I still had some mild cramps and horrid mood swings and my right knee seemed to gradually get worse. Pains that came and went more when it rained. I am now in the middle of getting depo provera out of my system and I must say I feel like I am dying. Horrible mood swings nausea headache"
"This drug was absolutely awful in my opinion. For the first couple weeks, I had little to no symptoms. Around week 6 is when all hell broke loose. It  began with tingling and numbness in my hands and feet and crazy intense headaches. It interrupted my work day, where I had to leave the office a few times to lay down. Then, I started getting crazy joint pain so intense that when I woke up each morning and got out of bed I would scream from the pain ( my pain tolerance has always been high). Next came the shoulder pain I felt like my shoulders were full of knots that wouldn't go away. Sexually, it took its toll on me too. Week 10 came the irritability and EXTREME FATIGUE. This drug is awful I don't recommend it whatsoever :("
"""I felt like I had to review this because I almost didn't start it since all the reviews were truly horrifying. I have been on depo for a few years and so have two of my best friends. We all absolutely love it. I haven't had a period since the first shot. I never experienced any weight gain or hormonal changes. Best of all, My bleeding and cramps from hell finally went away. I started taking this not for birth control, but to get rid of my extremely painful periods that started all the sudden once I turned 30. 
I'm not saying don't believe the horror stories, just remember, people usually only review when they have bad experiences. I like this way better than the pill and I don't have to take it everyday."""
"When I say this birth control screwed up my life, Im not kidding. Weight gain, TERRIBLE ACNE (never had anything nearly this bad as a teenager) and absolutely constant bleeding/spotting. There may have been one week worth of days out of the month with no bleeding. I wend back to the pill after 9 miserable months and almost instantly the bleeding stopped, and my face is so much clearer. Just take a pill everyday Depos effectiveness is not worth the stress and terrible side effects."
"I have taken birth control pills for years, before and after I had my daughter (age 4). About 7 or 8 months ago I started having really bad abdominal cramping again, weight gain, break through periods, etc. So 2 months ago, my OB suggested I switch to depo and see if it would help with the issues I was having. In 2 months, I haven't gained any weight (controlling my diet), but I have insane dreams that keep me up every single night, fatigue, increased abdominal pain, periods that have lasted all month, mood swings, migraine headaches (haven't had those in 8 years), and a loss in sex drive. I'm scheduled to get my 2nd shot next month, but I doubt I will. I do not recommend this form of birth control to anyone."
"Been on this shot for over 8 years now, never been off it, love it, yea I get moody but who doesn't Lol, no periods for me love it, never had bad issues with it at all maybe been on it for so long doesn't bother me, 8 years and still going"
"I was on depo for over seven years. I never had any bad side effects and it helped tremendously with my horrible moods. I had extremely irregular periods (I would be off my period for less than a week each month) and after two shots I quit having one completely. I have had no spotting either. I've gained about 30 lbs in that time, but getting older and married may have done that. I just recently stopped my shots and it's been one month since I was supposed to get it. I've already noticed I get mad and cranky faster. Hopefully just a coincidence."
"I'm just about to hit the 2 year mark on the shot. I get my shot regularly and never skip an appointment. I rarely see people talk about being on the shot for more than a few months. I chose this to help regulate my period and for birth control. I had awful, heavy periods before this. When I first started my period lessened and after the first year completely stopped. The only "con" is that I have gained weight since I started taking this. I'm wouldn't exactly blame this for it though, and so what if it's a few pounds. I would HIGHLY recommend this to anyone who wants better control over their periods, and don't want to worry about pills or something being put inside them."
"I've been on depo for about a year, and at first I absolutely loved it. No periods and no noticeable side effects at first. However, I started noticing frequent mood swings and often feelings depressed. On top of that, I have also had painful intercourse and my OBGYN says this is because of decreased estrogen levels which cause women to be less "wet" - which she said is very likely to be caused from the shot. I've also had serious trouble losing weight since I've been on the shot. Don't do it!!"
"I've been on the shot almost 2 months and loving it since reading all the bad reviews ever since I've got it I've watched what I've been eating and started swimming 5 days a week with occasional abdominal work outs and have seemed to have lost weight with the shot! No period yet so happy about that though and very easy to use acne has cleared up mood swings practically gone and have been generally happy! I would recommend to anyone who is like me and forgets things very easily."
"My teenage daughter (17 yrs) got the shot 3 weeks ago and it has been devastating. Has caused her personality changes, she is dangerously impulsive, gets angry in a few seconds which has never been like her. She eats constantly as she says she is always hungry. It has caused her to have horrible judgement and because of the shot she has had to go into therapy to teach her coping skills.  I would never recommend it to anyone."
"I just got this shot 1 week ago and I don't even notice a difference. I can't tell I even got it. I have actually been in a better mood since  receiving it. Not everyone I know has had the same experience. So all I can say is it's worth a shot. No pun intended :)"
"I started using depo when I was 18 after the birth of my first child. Worked excellent!! 0 complaints, i had no period,weight gain or emotional crap. I LOVED IT plus I was breastfeeding and it didnt mess with that. I used it for 3 years. I quit and about 6 months later got pregnant with my second baby. About a year and a half after baby #2 I tried depo agian.... i was moody but not to bad and agian no period.. took it at the 3 month mark and it bit me in the butt badly... I had every bad side effect possiable. I felt like I was crazy and pregnant, had constant spotting it was horriable. Needless to say I stopped.. and about 6 months later was pregnant with baby#3  my doc tells me its a great BC for younger girls....."
"The depo has its ups and downs for sure. Sex is great, my boyfriend never wears condoms and even though we should be safer he never pulls out. However I have gained about 15-20 pounds which is unfortunate because I used to always be my old certain weight. I noticed it just increases your hunger so if you watch what you eat and slow your roll on the food you should be fine or only gain a few pounds. I also don't get periods which I LOVE but when it's about time for a new shot I do spot a little."
"I opted to start depo after giving birth to my first born. Prior to taking it, I was having problems with anxiety and infrequent panic attacks following his birth; as, I assume, many new mothers do. Following the injection was one of the worst bouts of depression I have ever experienced in my life. I went to several psychiatrists as well as my gp, seeking treatment. Because I am breastfeeding there was not but so many medicines they could try. Celexa made me hallucinate, and a week or so into Zoloft I experienced a panic attack that I couldn't calm down from. I began smoking again to cope. We're a low income family, and I couldn't afford to keep going to the doctor. I eventually gave up. The injection wore off, and the depression did too."
"I got my first depo shot about a week ago. I went right from the pill to the shot. this shot is RUINING my life right now. I am constantly nauseas, I have chronic fatigue, and I have constant head aches. I also can't stop eating and feel hungry even after a big meal. I am praying that these side effects deminish bc it is making my social life, professional life, and personal relationships very rough."
"Okay so I heard so much bad things about this shot, but for me oh my gosh it's just amazing. I used to take birth control everyday because I had in regular periods and that would cause me ovary cystitis and yeah the birth control did get rid of that and   Regulate my period but oh my gosh, I gained so much weight and I was so mean and emotional that it was ridiculous. I try about 3 different and I stopped because it was making my life horrible and then I tried the drop shot, I have not gained any weight(actually lost, just eating right and usual  exercise), my acne has cleared up a lot, I'm not moody AT ALL(it's amazing) and you just do it every 3 months. I feel like if your a type of person that the daily birth control don't work, try this"
"I've had the shot for about 3 months and I've had a great experience. My acne was minimal, mood swings were practically unchanged, and I actually lost weight. It's my first shot, so I did have some spotting, but that was it. I would definitely recommend it."
"""Omg! total wrong decision. Thought it would be easier now I have a baby so I didn't forget to take a pill everyday. I've bleed everyday since I had the injection...way to kill your sex life.
I had pains in my right leg for 2 weeks after having the injection in my right buttcheek, had pain in the area of injection for 2 weeks too. 
No energy, feel depressed a lot. Migraines returned which I haven't had a good few years.
DO NOT DO IT!"""
"I had the Mirena put in December of 2018. Had it for three months before I had it removed. I had terrible side effects. Low sex drive, acting like a crazy woman, not really feeling emotions and it was becoming harder to lose my baby weight. Now since it's been a month of it being out, I feel amazing!! I'm back to my normal self. Such a blessing I didn't keep this device in.  The results were night and day for me! Never again will I use Mirena!"
"I wanted to like Mirena because of the all the positive reviews and promotion from my gyno. I also needed something I didn't have to remember to take every day. I've had it for a year and a half, and I've gained 10-15 lbs more than my usual weight. I'm the heaviest I've been in a while despite a super healthy diet and consistent exercise; the cellulite on my legs is embarrassing considering how active I am and being only 31. I also have had non stop breakouts on my back and on the sides of my face :( I'm getting it removed in a month because the cosmetic side effects are really frustrating."
"""Hi All,
This is my experience getting Mirena put in at age 26. This is my 100% truthful opinion and experience. No children or anything so my cervix is tiny. There is a reason I guess they recommend it specifically to woman who have had a kid. The insertion process was incredibly uncomfortable and painful as hell and I never will do it again. The ""cramp"" they described was an understatement. I almost passed out, I had a miserable and painful first month after insertion. I have gained 10+ lbs of weight without diet or activity changes, and got some crazy deep stretch marks on my tummy as a result. I've never stopped spotting during periods. And the side effects are noticeable for sure, regardless what ""percentage"" they advertise. It can affect you, and it sucks. Yes, the pros sound so awesome initially, for sure. I hope it is a better process for you, but just commit to a pill daily would be my best advice. Or just use spermicide and condoms and watch your cycle."""
"""I had a Mirena inserted in August of 2016, from that time I began steadily gaining weight without a real change in my diet or exercise. I had eventually had it taken out in March and stopped gaining weight. At that time I had a copper IUD put in its place but that was having heavy bleeding so I also wanted it out. The doctor swore up and down the progesterone in the Mirena was not high enough for it to cause weight gain so she suggested I try it again once I had the copper IUD out. I did, that would have been in October of 2017. Since then I've gained about 15lbs. None of my clothes fit my anymore.
I was in denial that it was the Mirena, I liked the Mirena because it stopped my periods but I'm so over it now."""
"""Very bad experience for me. Very painful to get in, 
I should have listened to my mom's warnings about getting it and should have done more research.
I got it out after less than a week due to bad anxiety and strange numbness in my arm that  would wake me up  every night that I'd never had before.
Do happy I made this decision."""
"I just had a baby and wanted to get on a birth control. I wanted something other than the pill so I decided on an IUD. Unfortunately, the IUD (Mirena) was inserted in my uterine wall! I had heavy bleeding for 6 weeks and the doc said that was normal for some women. The doc didn't do an ultrasound to see if anything was wrong. There were several visits to try to remove it with no luck. Now I have to go in for surgery to remove it! It's going to cost me over $3300 and several weeks to heal from a doctor's mistake!"
"I had Mirena for 2.5 years - I am 45 and only got it from a friend's advice to not get pregnant and hassle free due to my hectic job and lifestyle (always travelling for work). I had mine out 1 week ago and I can report feeling better - almost instant - energy level increased, not bloated (or looking/feeling 3 months pregnant) anymore, lust for life back, not depressed. Today, a  manager I work said "you look so skinny - what have you done?" Wow - I did nothing at all - no change to diet, exercise or eating patterns  - yes the reduction in weight and bloat had dramatically reduced my size literally in a few days. I knew hormone BC is not for me as per my past but I thought I'd give this a go based on all the medical info telling me it's so low dose you cannot put on weight - well in my case - I did and it affected my mood and energy levels.  I feel like I am back to my happy, healthier self and will never go back on this. It might be right for some but not for me at all - I guess it's all trial and error !"
"I've been on MIrena for 2 years now and love it. I was super nervous about getting it because of all the horror stories I've read but I'm so glad I decided to try it!! The first 2-3 months were rough while my body was adjusting to the hormones and I almost got it taken out but I'm glad my Dr. suggested I needed to try it for 6 months before I made a decision. I had bad mood swings and thought I was going crazy in those first couple of months. Now I have zero issues! I haven't had a period in over a year which is awesome of course. My husband says he can feel it during sex sometimes but it's not a uncomfortable at all. My advice if you're thinking about trying it is go for it!! If it doesn't work for you just have to taken out. I've been on several pills, depo, the patch, and nuvaring and the mirena is my favorite! Nuvaring would be my second. I HATED all the others! Hope this helps!"
"I did a lot of research online and talked to many women for months before I decided to get the IUD. I chose the Mirena because it had the most positive reviews and would last the exact number of years I need. I haven't had any pregnancies and have tried birth control pills before. Took my body 8 months to adjust fully and has been great ever since. The biggest benefit for me is I no longer have painful ovarian cysts. No other birth control has helped me with that except my IUD. My advice, take pain pills before insertion. Wait out the side effects because they are not as bad as the pill."
"I got the Mirena inserted about 9 months ago, and to start off the insertion was extremely painful (my back caved in as I was getting it inserted and almost passed out; (I can tolerate pain very well) after that I have been bleeding immensely since I've got it inserted with the exception of maybe 5 days within a month. I've always been extremely happy. With this Mirena, I've felt extremely depressed, Tons of bloating, pelvic pain, sharp pains in my back and uterus to where I just want to hunch my back, awful migraines, feet swelling, and get really bad thoughts in my head. Sometimes, my husband will want to have intercourse and I won't because I know the aftermath is going to leave me in so much pain and It's honestly one of the worst feelings a wife could have is telling them no (especially when they're in the military so away a lot of the time so want to "catch up") :( it's been such a bad experience and I just can't wait to get this thing removed in a few days because all I want to do is be my old self again."
"It is the worst birth control I have ever used. I have tried Mirena 2 times. The first time I had it inserted a little after giving birth to my first and only child. I had it removed after experiencing severe depression, lethargy, mood swings, and thinning of my hair. I initially chalked it up as post-partum, however I just had Mirena inserted again for birth control and I of course am not pregnant or nor have I recently given birth and I have the same exact side effects. I am generally energetic and happy but this birth control has made me into a mad woman and I am having it removed tomorrow, thank goodness! I will just continue to use the pill - oh and I gained about 13 pounds after having it for only 3 weeks. I went from 115 to 128."
"So it's my 5th day on it. The lady told me to give it some time like 6 months but I'm all out of time. 1st day slightly bleeding.. second day till now... worst cramps I've ever experienced in my whole entire life. My acne on my face is horrible. My hair is falling out and I'm black and mexican my hair hardly falls out! I'll wake up 2/3 times in the middle of the night with the worse cramps I've ever had. Even when I have my period I hardly cramp. I'll be in class I'll start cramping I'll have to look down and start breathing through my nose out my mouth because this pain is horrible. I'm bloating so bad it makes me feel self conscious about myself. I'll be sad out of no where then I'll get mad. It's crazy! This IUD is the worse and it's only my first time using it on the 5th day!!! I'm getting it removed tomorrow. Maybe people won't experience what I had. I've never been on birth control so this was quite the experience."
"I had Mirena for about a year and a half. For the first 6 months I spotted every day but had no periods/pain. After 6 months I had zero symptoms!!! It felt so perfect. I didn't get my period until about a year in. At this time, I had my period 3 months in a row, very light and virtually painless. After that though it stopped. I still had bloating/cramps/ mood swings. Then the worst part. I had cramps every day randomly for about 2 months. I just recently had it removed because I couldn't take it anymore. Altogether though, Mirena worked for me really well for about a year."
"The mirena is effective in the aspects of not getting pregnant, but the side effects are NOT good. Significant hair loss , depression, mood swings, loss in sex drive , pain during sex and after . I'm at the 2 year mark I can't even believe how drastic the side effects are, the depression is the worst and sex drive is at zero, the pain from sex is on a scale 1-10 a hard 10 . Please consider alternative"
"""I had my first mirena coil fitted just yesterday.
I'm not due a period for a week so not the ideal time to fit. 
The Dr fitting it couldn't do anything at first because my cervix was spasming. I tried my hardest to relax it stopped spasming quickly and she was able to get on with it. 
I was concentrating on my breathing in anticipation of pain, I was still waiting for something to happen when they told me they were all done. I'd only felt a little cramping, it was totally painless. I have had two babies both straight forward deliveries which would have helped I'm sure. 
I was a little lightheaded immediately after and was told to take my time getting off the bed. I was soon feeling less wobbly and got dressed, took my paperwork etc and went home. 
I have had cramps, with occasional strong cramps that feel a lot like early labour pains, but they don't last long. I've had a small amount of spotting, pink and brown but only when wiping.
Review for fitting and first few days only."""
"I switched from the ring to an IUD due to the length of my periods. I had my IUD in for a year and a half and chose to get it removed due to it making my skin break out with cystic zits, acne, and scarring. The IUD also didn't help me with the length of my periods, it still was 9-12 days for me. My doctor then prescribed me to a pill (Sprintec) that was a mixture of progesterone and estrogen to assist with the break outs and length and for four months now, my skin and length of cycle have changed drastically and now I can finally say I found a winner."
"""I had my Mirena inserted today after putting it off for 2 years due to fear of the insertion pain. I have been through hell on 10-15 different BC pills.
I took 800mg ibuprofen and 5mg of the anti-anxiety med Ambien (which my Dr. prescribed) 45 minutes before the insertion. My Dr. decided to insert it under sonogram guidance to ensure it was fit perfectly. 
The actual insertion pain lasted 45 seconds to 60 seconds tops. I would describe the pain as a 3-4 because it is so fast! It's no worse than a muscle cramp, stubbing your toe, or any sort of pain we women endure often. After the insertion my Dr. did an internal sonogram to confirm it was fit perfectly. I have literally had no pain or cramping at all since insertion and feel as if it never even happened. 
I believe my success has to do with the medicines/sonogram guidance: so if you are nervous ask if your Dr. is open to these things! Just know everyone's pain will be different and you never know until you try!"""
"I had the IUD inserted 8 weeks after I had my second baby (10/2015) and had it in for 2 yrs (12/2017). The procedure lasted about 1/2 hr and I went to work on that same day right after that. My periods normally lasted about 4 days and sometimes there was some spotting after my periods. I didn't lose or gained weight. I did lose so much hair but I don't know if it was due to postpartum.  It was about almost 2 yrs and definitely constantly losing hair made me think the IUD was the cause of it. Crampings were not so bad. I only got it removed because I was losing hair and since I had no partner there was no need to have it. I'm gonna give it another try and see what happens."
"It stopped my periods all together but aged me by 20 years by EXTREME itchy skin and  in 14 months  I looked like Quasimodo. Eyes were swelling up and skin was crawling off my upper body and scalp. I don't know if the damage sustained on my eyes is reversible."
"I wanted to leave something positive in case others wanted to test Mirena out. Insertion didn't hurt me but the next day I had pretty big cramps. I had my period for a month straight after that. It wasn't painful just weird but they said its a normal side effect. Now I get light periods and some spotting. I don't think I have any mood swings, they were worse on the pill (for me at least) and I tried 3 different types of pills before the IUD. All I can say is I did have a cyst on my ovary which hurt a lot but I heard it's normal and my 2 of my friends have had it and they don't have the IUD, the doc said sometimes your follicles become enlarged. I do still get cramps on my period though. No weight gain at all for me either. Only reason I didn' give a 10 is because of the long period at the beginning. I like the IUD, especially since I hate the pill."
"""I had Mirena for 2 years. I had to get it removed today because it perforated by cervix. Very scary experience. The removal was slightly complicated but quick. I liked it because I did not have to take a pill everyday, however, this birth control made me gain 50 lbs in 2 years. I have been active but I would only gain not lose. Even when cutting my calorie count to 700 cals a day. I also, I do not like that my future fertility is in danger due to the perforation of my cervix. I do not think the ease of it was worth it.  
Additionally, I hardly ever had a period. That was a positive through out use."""
"""Had it almost 3 years. Insertion was the worse pain imaginable, I honestly almost passed out.  Afterwards, I was on bed rest for the rest of the day with cramps that lasted a week. 
 The first 3months I had some strange side effects. I would constantly get urinary tract infections and had to take cranberry/preventive pills to avoid them.  My gums were always bleeding. Had brain fog, I would often forget what I was doing. And the first time I tried to have sex, approx a month after insertion, I actually started crying because it was so painful. So why didn't I remove it right away, well because getting put in was so awful  I couldn't bare the idea of  removing it.
So I stayed on it, and the UTIs went away, so did the gum bleeding. And about 1year later I finally had sex again and it didn't hurt.
A side effect I forgot to mention, was weight gain/bloating. In the 3 years I had gained approx 25lbs. When I removed it within a month I had lost 25lbs."""
"I've had two Mirena IUDs. After two years of my first Mirena, my moods stabilized and I stopped menstruating completely. I had a second one put in place in 2017 and a month later, I had my first panic attack. I went to the ER thinking that I was dying from a heart attack. From there, I suffered monthly panic attacks and anxiety. Headaches, chest pain and pressure, nausea, and many other symptoms I blame on my Mirena IUD. Doctors need to stop believing all the research done by Pharma and start looking at the lawsuits. Mirena is fine for some women. It can also damage a significant percentage of those who try it. There needs to be more unbiased research done on Mirena side effects."
"When I got mirena, I was supposed to get my period within a few days, but it just never came. It's been a little over a year now and I still don't have my period. Which is amazing. But, is that normal?"
"I got my IUD placed around 2 years ago and best decision ever! There's a bit of hate on the internet for the IUD but as someone who was depressed and anxious on the pill, the IUD has changed my life. I no longer get my period and have had no weird hormonal side effects from my Mirena. Only reason not 10 stars is because I did spot (very lightly but very consistently for like 8 months). I also am part of a sports team and thus have done a small scale study (lol) and of 20 of us, 3 have gotten the Mirena and have all had really good experiences with it."
"I was really happy with the mirena at first . I've had it for five month's. My periods where very light. I woke up one morning and blood was all over my bed. When I stood up blood clots came out. I went to the hospital and they told me that the mirena had  gone through my uterus."
"I thought the mirena would be awesome so I got it. Worst mistake ever. I had a period 4 times in a month. I cramped horribly and it hurt so bad during sex. My mood swings where crazy. I got depressed and irritated over nothing. I have lost my strings and my doctor didn't tell me any of this would happen. I am getting it removed ASAP and am looking for another method.. Once again.. WORST MISTAKE EVER!!"
"I just got my mirena put in, the nurse prior to getting it told me it should only take 5 minutes and be painless. Let me tell you it was the worst pain I've ever felt. Before insertion my Dr. asked if I took ibuprofen or anything like his nurse should have suggested, which she never did.  So if I had taken something prior to getting there I'm sure it would have been less painful. She also told me I could immediately go to work. He told me I needed to go home and lay down for the day. So here I am at work with severe cramps because I couldn't call in that last minute."
"Iv'e had the mirena three times now, all at different stages of my life. The first time it worked really well, mind you was only 21 at the time. Second time round I had it when I was 24 and it was completely painful and in the wrong spot so I got it removed after only  2 months. Now 29 I have only had it for just over 3 months and I'm getting this one removed on Monday. The headaches and migraines are horrible, the weight gain is also their along with bloating, tired and zero sex drive. Not to mention the week before and on my period the cramps and aches and pains are not worth it, also my entire body aches and I don't have to do anything and I'm in pain."
"""I had the Mirena inserted after using Paraguard (which was a nightmare). Pro: as a birth control, little to no period. My regular periods before this weren't very heavy and I've never had terrible cramps. I will occasionally have back aches and cramping but not unbearable. 
Cons: insertion is fairly painful, I got lightheaded during insertion and it feels like the worst cramping you could imagine. 
Also and the biggest thing for me is the weight gain. I had stayed around 151-157 for about the last 10 years. Since getting the Mirena I have steadily gained weight. I'm now around 167. I used to just be able to clean up my eating and lay off the junk food when I noticed I was putting in a few pounds and be back to normal. Not anymore. I'm really considering having it removed. I feel fat and bloated pretty much all the time."""
"Severe painful side effects. Got pregnant (!) despite using and I had even had an ultrasound ensuring good placement. Led to miscarriage. String disappeared, had to go deep to retrieve. Would never recommend. Should be banned."
"I got the Mirena to help with excruciating period pains and have a reliable source of birth control year round. I had it placed in April 2018. The instertion was uncomfortable but not unbearable. I didn't spot/have irregular periods for the first 2/3 months, and have since had no more periods. I still go through monthly cycles such as slight ovulation pain and breast swelling but it's not accompanied by bleeding which is great. I don't think I experienced weight gain, as I sit at 145 but fluctuate up and down a few pounds through out the year. Overall, I highly recommend as it helped with my pain, I haven't become pregnant and I haven't experienced any side effects."
"I got my mirena inserted on 9/14/18 and weighed around 120 lbs at the time. I've checked my diet logs from before I got the mirena and was usually between 115-120 for the previous years. It's now been 4 months and my weight has gone up to 133 lbs! My diet hasn't really changed and now on top of weight gain I feel puffy and bloated most days of the month. I'm debating whether to get it taken out because it works and I don't really have a period anymore, but I don't like the way I look and feel."
"I had the Mirena coil fitted in August 2018 for heavy periods. I was informed that it would NOT cause weight gain. The insertion was really painful. Immediately I had major contraction pains which took my breath away. These went on for nearly two months. I also had an insatiable hunger. This lasted for 3 months and then every 2 weeks thereafter. I also bled seriously heavily for the first 3 weeks and then had light bleeding every day. Back and hip pain was also a permanent fixture from day 1 of insertion. I also had mood swings which made me feel very anxious and angry. My stomach was ALWAYS bloated and really uncomfortable every day with mild and sometimes severe cramp. I weighed my self. Despite not putting on weight in 3 years previous to the Mirena, I'd gained 12 pounds within 4 months of having the coil fitted. It is now January 2019. I've just got back from an appointment to have it removed. My stomach pain has already disappeared. Please think very carefully about having one of these things fitted."
"""I'm just going to give the details. I'm not trying to trash mirena, this is just my experience. For background, I'm 21 and I am also on a 40mg daily dose of fluoxotine.
I got mirena in May 2018 as my first form of birth control as an adult (took lo Loestrin for a short time in high school for bad periods). In the week after insertion, I developed a yeast infection and a UTI - never had a yeast infection before, but since getting mirena I have had quite a few.  I bled lightly off and on (mostly on) for 3 months after insertion along with sporadic cramps, sometimes intense and sometimes not. 
I am 5'7 and have always hung around 130 pounds. It has been 8 months since I got mirena and I currently weigh 170, still gaining weight every week. Even with drastic diet improvement and exercise increase I have continued to gain a massive amount of weight. I'm getting mirena removed next week. I'm looking forward to trying another form of birth control."""
"I am extremely happy with Mirena. I had it  inserted  after having my baby as birth control. There was inconsistent spotting in the beginning and cramping that would come and go. But all of the pain stopped after 3 months. My periods are very light now and no pain during periods. Because there is no pain, my mood stays good overall."
"I am so glad I have read this forum. I have been suffering for months and thinking I was going round the bend with my mental health. Suffering from awful panic attacks, anxiety, arm and shoulder pain, sickness, headaches, heavy bleeding and more. I had my mirena coil inserted May 2018. After he contraceptive injection and pill failed to work for me. Since then I really haven't been the same person. I can not wait to have it removed."
"I have had mirena for 3 months. I felt no pain during insertion and had no cramps or bleeding immediately afterward. Then one week later I started cramping and spotting and that has lasted on and off to this day. I get breakouts on my face that I never got before. I have gained 4 pounds and dieting isn't getting it off. Before I could just clean up my eating a bit and the weight would come off and that's not the case now. I have absolutely NO interest in sex anymore whatsoever. But other than that I haven't had any real problems with it. I'm hopeful everything will even out in the next few months and my body will get used to it and these side effects will go away because other than that it has been a great birth control"
"I was on this birth control for 2 years. The insertion was very painful (I won't even lie) I came off the table I was on - it was so bad. I also had a vasovagal syncope attack after (which is normal for me) I cramped badly after for about a week. But after two months my periods were super normal/ light. My acne was nearly GONE! I did gain about 15 pounds, but other than that I felt very protected and secure and happy. That is, til I read it can make it harder to have kids. I read sooooo many people saying that so out of fear I had it removed. I wish I hadn't , but the weight did come off immediately within a week. Now I'm on the hunt for something that won't make me depressed or anxious and will help my periods. So far mirena has been the best aside from the extreme pain to get it!"
"I've had Mirena for over one year, this year is the most awful year that I've experienced as a married woman. During this year I've had the chance for having sex just for 10 or 12 times at all, because I have heavy bleeding after inserting Mirena and till now after one year and one month!!! The insertion was very painful, I needed my husband to take me home, and I needed to rest for one day after insertion. I had terrible cramp in my abdomen and pain in my bones, legs and hip, irregular mc and longer than usual for 14 or 20 days. Doctors told me that it gonna be alright after a year and be patient, but there is no sign of adaptation on me... Now that I review the users experiments I want to get this thing removed from me and back to usual life."
"""Hello everyone,
Just wanted to leave a good review because prior to getting Mirena I nearly let all the bad scare me out of getting it! I got Mirena on Nov 27/18. I was on Day 3 of my period.  The insertion was quick but pretty uncomfortable """
"I had two mirenas over ten years. Age 23-33.  As far as effective birth control it was perfect. Never had one pregnancy scare. I already had two kids. I stopped having a period after the third month, had normal cramps the first year off and on. My husband said he noticed it at first, but after awhile he  got used to it. Those were my positives. The bad side was painful insertion the first time and some mild weight gain. The worst part was the acne!!!! It took me awhile to realize it was the birth control. I got cystic acne badly. It started after the first year. I tried everything and I do mean everything nothing helped. So when it was time to get a third IUD, I switched to Skyla. It has less hormones and my doctor said it might help. She was right it did. My acne cleared up in the first month. I still get an occasional zit but nothing life altering like with the mirena. Overall it's an effective birth control with one side effect I could not live with."
"""I had Mirena for five years. I did not get pregnant while on it however I did experience many side effects. 
For the first year my period was normal and by year two my period became extremely light and lasted for only three days.
By year three, my period completed stopped. I experienced a 70 lb weight gain, severe mood swings, insomnia. anxiety and also was diagnosed with severe depression. This lasted until I took the IUD out.  Immediately I experienced a 25 lb weight loss and thankfully am no longer suffering from depression, mood swings or depression. 
I am a south Asian woman in her late twenties."""
"Insertion of the IUD was the worst pain I've ever felt! I am shocked by how many women have said it wasn't that bad....but maybe it's because I have never had kids. The doctor says you will feel two pinches the first one will be a little pinch followed by a bigger pinch, then it's over. The first pinch hurt but wasn't terrible. Then came the bigger pinch and I pulled up on the table cringing from the pain. It's like when you get a piercing and they say take a deep breath and as they push you feel the needle punch through the skin except in your ovaries. I almost passed out and an had really bad cramps after. My period never returned, I had frequent yeast infections, my breast were extremely sore and had terrible acne. My doctor prescribed me Spironolactone which didn't work for me  :/ IUD removal was a breeze felt a little more uncomfortable then removing a tampon. I'm going to try the mini pill next."
"29 yo female, no kids. I have been on progestin only pills for the past several years. I had Mirena inserted a week ago and I am very happy with it so far. I didn't have a ton of pain with insertion but I took 3 ibuprofen before the procedure, I also had stopped my period about 5 days before. The cervical clamp was less uncomfortable than a Pap, and the only pain I felt was when my uterus was measured and when the Mirena was inserted. Both times felt like a strong period cramp, a little sharper but it was over in 10 seconds. After that it just felt like normal cramps that came and went. I had my husband drive me and I was glad I did because I almost passed out during the drive! Not because of pain, I have a history of vasovagal syncope after invasive procedures. A heating pad and ibuprofen were essential over the next few days but I was ready to go back to work after the weekend. It's been a week and I feel totally normal, so far so good!"
"I found that the mirena was not a good drug for me to use. I only had it in for about 5 months before I had it taken out. I suffer for chronic migraines but the migraines I got while on it were the worst I ever had in my whole life. I could not function I was in so much pain. With in 4 days of it being removed all my symptoms were gone and have not returned. I do not recommend it."
"I had mirena for 1 year. After having the device put in I had mild cramping etc. side effects that came after were terrible, I had extremely bad mood swings, depressed and my hair became brittle and falling out! I have always been a good weight but in a year gained. I was 120lb and by the end 140lb ... I couldn't get the weight off. I also had terrible pain in my uterus, fever and chills and very tired. I then got it removed and feel way better!"
"I had my mirena inserted in 2008. The first couple months I had bad cramping . The cramping and bleeding subsided after a few months. I had my IUD in for a total of 9yrs before having it removed in 2017( yes the same one) I had no period the majority of time while it was inserted.I  have been trying to conceive for a year with no success. My period came back 2 weeks after having my IUD removed. I have a regular cycle every month about 26/27 days long. Fertility may come back for some right away but not all. If you are planning on trying for a baby in the near future please consider how long you had your IUD inserted and your age. I'm in my late 30's so this can be playing a role in my fertility. I wish I would of had it removed at least 3 yrs ago , my chances of pregnancy would be greater. I have always suffered from acne so I don't really know how much of a role mirena played in my break outs. Now that I had it removed my face is 90% clearer."
"I have been using the mirena as contraception since 2003.  I am about to have my fourth one.  It is the best thing I have ever done.  I fell pregnant three times on contraceptive pill (tried many different ones).  I have not had a period since the first insertion and my hormones are well under control.  The only issue I have is weight gain.  I did put on about 15 kg but am slowly loosing it with exercise and diet control, however, I was overweight when I started using the mirena.  I think it is something definitely worth considering, especially if you have completed your family.  I think it is something that you have to try in order to make an informed decision about it."
"I just had the IUD inserted a few days ago.. and the pain during insertion was WAY more than I had anticipated. It was much more severe than some mild cramping like I had read online. I almost fainted 3 times during my visit and I have a high pain tolerance. But I have never given birth which could be a reason it was so painful for me. But be prepared and definitely ask for a prescribed pain killer that you can take before hand. If I could do it all over again I would have."
"I got the Mirena May 1, 2017.  I felt pressure during insertion, but no pain. In the first couple of months, I had a lot of spotting, which was unusual for me. Eventually I stopped getting periods.  However, I gained 30lbs in the 10 months I had it. That was my reason for getting it removed. My weight was stable before, and stable after. My biggest complaint now is that I've only had 1 period since it was removed 7 months ago."
"I have endometriosis so my doctor suggested switching from Nexplenon to Mirena so that the hormone will be directly released in my uterus and alleviate the awful cramping I get maybe 3-4 times a year. The insertion was really painful for me. They said I would feel instant cramping three times but after the last, it just persisted all day. They had to monitor me for about an hour because I got very dizzy, nauseated, and weak. I was given a pill for the nausea and a shot for the pain. Was told to not take ibuprofen for the next 8 hours after the shot. I was in awful pain all day. It's been a week now and I still get waves of serious cramping. I have to take 2-3 pills of ibuprofen (200 mg) and use a heating pad. I'm considering getting it removed soon because instead of helping, it just induced more pain for me. That could just be because I have endometriosis and an prone to more painful periods."
"The Mirena made me go crazy after only a month I got depressed severe anxiety and panic attacks. I was paranoid then ended up in a mental hospital. I had weird thoughts and felt like they would turn into actions. No dr helped except psychiatrist in the hospital told me it was the Mirena also the Zoloft they used to try to treat these symptoms that the doctor said was postpartum depression.  It was my first time on any type of birth control,  first time seeing a psychiatrist  or taking any antidepressants. I asked every dr can it be the Mirena? They all said no or I doubt it even though these are all listed side effects. I had the  Mirena taken out stopped taking Zoloft, now on no other meds now  and my life is back to normal. Thank goodness I was smart enough to listen to my body. The psychiatrist  said they get a lot of women in there for the Mirena. I could have lost my husband and 4 children my job my house all because the drs want to encourage you to keep it!!!"
"""I had mirena inserted May 4th 2018. Insertion itself wasn't bad but I did have some severe cramping for a few hours afterwards (to the point my uterus was sore for 3 days). If my body continues to adjustment well I plan on to keep using mirena until menopause but I'm going to give it  a full year before making that call and I'm 35 years old now. 
Pre-IUD period was for 4 to 5 days with no spotting in between.
With IUD up till 3 months each period decreased by half but spotting for 14 to 16 days. Month 4 thru now is spotting for 14-16 days
At this point the only thing is for duration to shorten or vanish to make this any easier. But so far I'm pleased especially since I don't have to remember anything other than to check the stings."""
"""I have been a size 8 all my life, never putting weight on however after getting the Mirena Coil, I put on 3 stone that I could not lose despite belonging to a gym and eating very healthy.
Other side effects included terrible mood swings , debilitating migraines, depression and anxiety, hair loss and some spots . 
I had never suffered with any of these conditions before the coil.
Blood test show my hormones are totally out of whack which certainly explains my symptoms. 
When I had the coil out, the strings had been cut too short meaning I had to have an instrument pushing through my cervix into my womb, the pain was so bad I cried. 
I was NEVER told or advised  about possible side effects/removal issues.
I think health care professionals push these things on to women without giving them all the objective information needed to make informed decisions over their own bodies!!!!"""
"""I had mirena inserted about 9 weeks after having my first child. It was an awful experience.  The first attempt my dr spent 30 mins trying to insert it before she had us move to ultrasound dept where we spent another 45 mins trying with no luck. Apparently I have a ""curvy cervix "". I went back 4 days later with a full bladder and pain meds and NSAID on board. We went straight to ultrasound this time and she spent 45 minutes to successfully implant it. Pain on day 2 was not so bad since I had pain meds in me. It's been 4 weeks now and I've bleed every day of that....some days heavy other days spotty. 
I hope it evens out soon however when I was on the depo shot I bled for 7 months straight before my period disappeared.
I'm happy I have it because it's one less thing to worry a out but I do want to caution people out there that the insertion process may not be as quick and easier as others have experienced."""
"Not impressed to find this IUD is no longer where it should be and has started to work its way out, meaning my contraception I thought was reliable has been useless.  One pregnancy test ( negative, thank goodness) and a lot of unnecessary stress I was asked if I would like another...NO WAY. Back to the depo injection for now."
"So I got the Mirena coil in after I had my daughter and everything was going ok until I found out I was pregnant again. I was taken straight in to hospital to have it removed and it couldn't be found then I was told it had fallen out and to continue things as normal. Then I started bleeding really badly and sadly had a miscarriage. Had to go in for a scan to confirm this and they found the coil in my uterus. 3 attempts to try and catch the string through my cervix which was the most uncomfortable feeling. I now have to go back for an x-ray tomorrow and it looks like it is going to be surgery to remove it. I would never recommend this to anyone after my experience. I know nothings 100% but this has been a nightmare"
"""I had Mirena inserted almost 7 years ago for birth control. I have to have it taken out soon and am kind of dreading it. I've gotten so used to not having my period and not having to worry about being pregnant!  
I had mild cramping for a day after insertion, my biggest complaint was that I had some minor spotting for 4-6 months afterwards. Fortunately it wasn't ever much to be concerned with- And gradually got less frequent to the point that the last 6 1/2 years I have not had my period except occasionally (like maybe twice a year) I'd spot for a day or two, I'd hardly even call it a period it was so little. 
Mirena is marketed as being effective for 5 years but the physicians assistant I saw maybe a year after said that research has shown it to be good for up to 7 and in Europe it's marketed as 7. 
Overall I have been extremely satisfied."""
"Insertion wasn't exactly painful.  The measuring of my uterus felt extremely weird.  It was inserted on the first day of my cycle (August 31st) and I have been bleeding/spotting since.  Cramps started about an hour after insertion.  Took 800mg ibuprofen for the next two days.  Random cramping every now and then, but its not horrible."
"""21y old. 5'11"". 160lbs 
I got Mirena to start a job in a pharmacy. I didn't feel like asking my coworkers for my sprintec monthly.
Remembering back, insertion was a very deep pain felt intensely for 4 seconds, light headedness for 15-20 minutes, and BAD cramping for 2 hours. 
Periods: STOPPED as soon as inserted.
Weight : I LOST 25 lbs in the few months after. That could have also been due to my new job. My job included standing and no time for eating.
My mood: Haven't had swings like I would with sprintec and when I was getting periods.
So how about 11 months in now?
I have ACNE again. Like 5-8 pimples at a time. That has started in last 2 months.
So that is my 11 month update. Worse complexion is my biggest complaint. Having my one year check up in 2 weeks. Think I'll get a Rx to fight acne.
I have had a different experience than most of the women on here so that's why I felt like sharing.
Finding the right BC is HARD, but I think you can do it. I did.
Good luck sister."""
"""I had Mirena inserted a little over a year ago only as a birth control option. Before I got it I had never had a single cramp as a result of my period. I had never had any PMS symptoms at all up until I got the mirena. 
It was incredibly uncomfortable to get it inserted, and I bled for 3 months straight after with little to no breaks. 
After this ended, the following months were fine...however whenever my period came I would get excruciating cramps that lasted 1-2 days non stop. 
Not to mention my period occurs every 2 weeks now and lasts 2 weeks long as well, so I only have 2 weeks in between every period and it's absolutely miserable for me. I have also almost completely lost my sex drive (keep in mind I am 20 years old). I have tried libido supplements for women of many brands but nothing seems to work. I cannot get turned on whatsoever and I really do believe it's the mirena acting adversely with my body. I'm calling to get it taken out as soon as possible."""
"""inserted May 4th 2018. Insertion itself wasn't bad but had some severe cramping for a few hours after (was sore for 3 days). If it continues to well I plan on to keep using until menopause but I'm going to give it a full year before making that call and I'm 35 yrs old now. I haven't seen any reviews that show a month by month account.  I will share and maybe that will help someone in adjusting of 3 to 6 months if they aren't one of the instant no period group.
Pre-IUD - 6 to 8 o.n. pads for 4 to 5 days with no spotting in between
1st cycle with 4 to 5 overnight pads for 4 days with 16 days of spotting. 
2nd cycle 2 to3 overnight pads for 4 days with 14 days of spotting. 
3rd cycle 1 overnight pad a day for 4 days  with 14 days of spotting .
4th cycle 1 pad for 1 day with 12 days of spotting
5th cycle on currently- pantyliners only 6 days of spotting so far.
At this point the only thing is for duration to make this any easier. But so far I'm pleased especially since I don't have to remember anything"""
"Worst decision ever!!!!  I bleed pretty much every single day and have for over 6 months.  I've been back to the Dr twice and they've checked it out and sent me for an ultrasound and everything looked fine.  It's taken a huge mental toll on my life and has taken a toll on my relationship as well.  Clearly not having sex if you're bleeding all the time!  Beyond frustrating, I'm over it, it's coming out next week."
"I got the Mirena in July of this year 2018. My experience with it has been great. The insertion process to me wasn't painful at all. I experienced mild cramps afterwards but nothing unbearable, I even went back to work to finish my shift and felt fine. I haven't had any complications with the Mirena at all."
"First, I got this inserted 6 weeks AFTER I had my son so the insertion process was not hard or painful for me. I will not be able to share my experience on that because it was painless. After I got this IUD inserted, I gained almost all of the weight back that I was losing. My weight rose from 200lbs to 235 lbs... AWFUL. I have had depression and anxiety ever since this was inserted. I have felt like a psycho woman and my fiance has noticed it too. This has been the worst birth control ever and I would never recommend to anyone but everyone's body is different so, to each their own. The only good  thing that has come out of this birth control is not getting pregnant but honestly I would have rather gotten pregnant again then experience what I have with this BC. I got it removed about a week ago (also painless to get it removed)  because of this experience I have had with it and already feeling better. Giving it a 4 because it did actually prevent me from getting pregnant with unprotected sex."
"I had Mirena inserted after birth it was a C Section so I went back to my Gyno one month after birth for the procedure to be honest it did not hurt and I did not even feel cramps.  But it's been two months now and am bleeding nonstop which is of great concern to me because am anemic from birth and it is so hard having to take care of myself, my baby, the extended family work and school is a big challenge for me. Am thinking of calling my gynecologist tomorrow already so frustrated."
"I got my IUD 4 months ago and I have been spotting for 90% of the time since. It's very frustrating and am trying to wait it out till the 6 month mark to see if it will level out, also because I've tried other hormonal birth control and it made me very irritable. The procedure itself was one of the most painful things I've experienced and I cramped occasionally for about a month after. My sister has one too and stopped bleeding very soon after so it depends on the person but I'm too scared to get it taken out because of how terrible it was to get in. Hopefully I can wait 2 more months and it will pay off."
"I have gained 35 pounds in the years of using this product in the first six months I gained 15. I finally don't have periods.  It is extremely hard to lose weight and when I do I can never lose more then ten pounds without gaining them back. I have been working out and eating well and nothing helps.  At this point I would rather be pregnant then keep gaining weight that won't leave"
"So I'm 34. Had it inserted 5 months ago. Never had kids. Most painful experience ever  almost passed out. Heavy bleeding for 3 months off and on. Now my period is lighter. Cramps not any better and I get spotting and random cramps. Personally when my 5 years are up (or before) its coming out especially if things get worse. Random cramping in between and mood swings. Very annoying."
"I've had Mirena for almost 2 years now. The insertation was quite painful for me. I had serious cramps for a couple days and a heavy period that lasted about 2 weeks. After that, it wasn't too terrible. I'm 28 and no kids so it's purpose is working. I haven't noticed much difference in weight, sex drive, emotions, etc although I do still have anxiety. The past 6 months I've been getting regular periods but slightly less cramps than before I had it. My acne has been TERRIBLE so I had to go on medication to keep that at bay. I've also had bad GI issues including passing blood that comes and go every few weeks. I had a colonoscopy and all sorts of blood work but they have not discovered the cause. I'm removing my Mirena soon so I'm hoping some of the issues clear up. Overall, it was ok. I didn't get pregnant, but between the regular periods and other issues I'm having I just want it gone to rule out this as a cause."
"""I've talked to some women that love Mirena and others like myself that had horrible side effects. There were no side effects initially but after 5 months of having it I started having the following symptoms: 
Mood swings, irritability, anxiety, heart palpulations, cystic acne on face, arms & back
None of these systoms are normal for me. I had the IUD removed and instantly felt better. I will not get Mirena again."""
"I got the mirena as for me it sounded like the best option, not having to worry about it for 5 years and it has less hormones than the pill. Before I went in I had 2 ibuprofen and an oxy. I got it in just as my period was ending as the cervix is generally a bit more dilated and to minimise bleeding. For background I am 21 with no kids. The procedure was fairly painless and just felt some slight cramping as the doctor put it in the cervix. The day I got it in (Monday) I couldn't get out of bed for around 5 hours after as it was just serious cramping which is normal and is your body adjusting, Day two was normal period like cramps and slight discharge. Day three (Today) no cramping and no discharge and feeling great. Don't be discouraged by one persons negative experience always try it out for yourself, you may love it and its not really a big deal to get it taken out if you don't."
"I've had the implant for 10 yrs but started getting more frequent heavier bleeding. GP recommended the Mirena as I'm 99% sure I'm not having any more kids plus they work better than the implant in older women (30+). I've had 2 kids but by c-section so was warned that insertion could be difficult. GP referred me to a gyno since I had to have a colposcopy and biopsy anyway so asked if he could do it all together. GP also prescribed me diazapam to take the night before and morning of to help relax my cervix. Insertion was uncomfortable and felt like a sharp cramp but no worse than getting the implant. Gyno was lovely and we chatted through the whole thing. I did flinch when the clampy thing to open my cervix went in!  4-5 hrs post-insertion and I've still got some period-like cramping. Had very light bleeding, which has since stopped. I'll wait to see how it goes over the next few weeks/months but so far not as bad as some of the experiences I've read about on here, thankfully!"
"I had my Mirena inserted less than 48 hours ago (Tuesday morning... it is now Wednesday night), so I can only review insertion. I wasn't on my period but it was so easy! I am 22, never given birth. I took 800mg ibuprofen about 2 hours before insertion. The anticipation was the worst part!  Once I got into the room, it took no longer than 5 minutes. The doctor gave me an injection in my cervix, which was only a small pinch. She wasted no time getting the IUD in and it was over before I knew it! The insertion was quick and relatively painless, felt like a short, intense cramp for about 2 seconds. I got up and felt completely pain free. I had some bleeding for the rest of the day, not super heavy but I had to wear a pad. Only started feeling period-like cramps about 2 hours later, but nothing too bad. I haven't felt any pain for over 8 hours now and bleeding is basically gone. I can confirm that insertion is NOT painful for everyone, so don't freak yourself out for nothing!"
"I had the IUD placed in January of this year. During the procedure, I was told I will feel mild cramping and experience light bleeding after. It ended with me having diarrhea immediately after, then my feet went numb. I wasn't not able to get off the toilet and get  out of the bathroom. The doctors literally had to break into the bathroom, the lifted me off the toilet, and had to wipe me. I couldn't do it myself. I ended being dizzy, having a headache, and vomiting everywhere. I couldn't even drive home afterwards. My husband had to leave his job to come get me and our daughter. I have experienced headaches everyday and cramping almost everyday. My mood has gotten worse and so has my depression and anxiety. No weight gain, or weight loss. I've been the same. I have been trying to have this thing removed but my doctors keep pushing back my appointment. I have seen so many sad stories about this thing and I want it too be removed. I would like to avoid any further issues and warn others."
"I got my IUD inserted about 1 month ago. I've never had kids, so I had to be dilated and that PLUS the actual insertion of the IUD was dizzying and super painful. I was spotting and cramping for the next two days consistently then after that, spotting and cramping every other day for the next two weeks. 1 month later I don't have any spotting or cramping and the strings have softened so my bf doesn't feel them anymore. I used to be on Levora for 3 years and switched because it was making me extremely moody and sensitive so I thought the Mirena IUD would be a better alternative and I was right. I am completely balanced in mood, no weight gain, and no acne outburst to date."
"So I've had my mirena coil  in for 5 years and is due to come out. This is my second one. I've developed an infection from it as and I am on antibiotics. I'm just wondering has this happened to anyone else"
"I got this because I was going back to Uni out of state and didn't want to worry about being on the pill. Getting the IUD inserted was the worst possible thing. It hurt so much because I've never had kids. I was in a lot of pain for about a week or so but once that past it was only slightly painful. That being said, I would get random bursts of pain for about 2-3 weeks. After that though, I was completely fine. Its been about 3 months and I haven't had any complications thus far. The only thing that's come up is that my boyfriend could feel it during sex but as time went on, the strings have softened."
"""I had the mirena coil fitted 6 weeks ago. Sorry to have to post this up but it was the worst experience of my life I passed out twice.  I was told I would have a light bleed /spotting  for a few weeks. I've since been back to the A&E I'm bleeding terribly and passing clots, it hasn't or doesn't seem to be getting any lighter. It's worse than a heavy period.  I'm getting married in two weeks and I don't know what I'm going to do I'm afraid to have it removed with the initial experience 
Is anyone else out there the same as me please share ."""
"I switched from pills to the arm implant Nexplanon in college. I had it 3 years and I bled every 8-16 days. So,  I talked with my gyno about an IUD since I liked the convenience of no pills and knew I didn't want kids for at least 3-5 years. We picked Mirena, to help my bleeding infrequency/stop my periods. Honestly, insertion didn't hurt as much as I was expecting based on reviews. It did hurt getting it put in, like bad period cramps, but after 2 days I felt fine. My arm hurt more from implant removal than the IUD insertion pain. I had just one period a month after insertion, and haven't bled since. I've had it for a 1.5 years, halfway through my 3 years. My only criticism is I have trouble finding my strings on my own, which my gyno could have cut too short. I still check that they are there, but only through my husband as he can feel them in there when we have intercourse (it doesn't stab or hurt him, he can just tell they are there and not a natural part of me)."
"I have had the Mirena IUD inside of me for one year now, I am 34 years old, never had kids. My periods had been very light until last year they started getting very heavy and almost daily.  Other birth control pills didn't help so doctor suggested this IUD. She had lied to me and told me it was an easy procedure that wasn't painful. Wow that was the most painful experience ever. I even yelped on the table as she was inserting and she told me to calm down. I managed to get a cab home and passed out from the pain. I was in pain for weeks.  It has been one year since I've had this thing in me and I'm still bleeding, almost daily and my strings are lost. Another doctor recommended for me to keep it in for the "benefits" because trying to find my strings and removing it will cause more pain. I bleed so much that my boyfriend this past year has lost interest in having sex with me. I will be getting it removed in the next month and hopefully will find something else to stop the bleeding."
"I have had the Mirena for almost four years now. It was been pretty great overall for the four years. A few months ago though, my periods started becoming very long. They would have one to two days where it seemed like it was done and then it would come back and just be light for about four more days. Mind you, I've never lost my period, it's just been shorter and like clockwork and lasting 5 days only. Now it's lasting double that if not longer. From what I read this is rather common and may mean it's time to be replaced. But anybody else feel the dread of having to go through the insertion process again? Cause damn, I'm not looking forward to that."
"I had the Mirena IUD inserted April 9th. I was not been on any birth control for 10 years prior. I have PCOS & a tilted uterus. Since I have not had children, insertion was EXTREMELY painful like hands shaking about to throw up painful & I was very sore & cramping/spotting for 3 days. Then I got my period and after that I have continued to bleed. I have to wear a pad or tampon daily. I cramp & get random pains in my uterus. I haven't had intercourse since insertion. I had a recent outbreak of acne but it could be attributed to my recent increase in activity. I honestly can't say that I have had an actual period outside of that one because I bleed & it's more like a light period mostly there when you wipe. They gave me Progesterone treatments for 15 days 2 months in a row to help my body adjust. They had lots of horrible side effects but did nothing for the bleeding. I plan on keeping it for at least 6 m - 1 y to really give it a try."
"I have had the Mirena for 3 1/2 years.  It was very painful to have it put in but I haven't had a period since - well up until 2 months ago when I started cramping and bleeding.  I went to the doctor who told me this is normal and nothing to worry about.  Now I have my period every month for a few days again like clockwork but lighter and shorter than before I had it put in.  I have recently started gaining weight (could be age/diet/activity) and I have always dealt with anxiety and depression which hasn't increased or decreased on it.  I wish they would have the warning that you can get your period again after so long so I knew not to freak out."
"I chose this mirena as a birth control to be inserted 8 weeks after I delivered my 1st child. To have it inserted was a BREEZE! My doctor recommend to take ibuprofen 30mins prior to my appointment because of the immediate cramping that follows. I just so happened to be on my 1st period after pregnancy which makes the process a whole lot easier for the  doctor.  No pain or discomfort, just slight pressure. I was perfectly fine talking and laughing. Took 3 mins to be inserted. Immediately I felt a slight cramp in my upper abdomen so I was glad for the ibuprofen. So far, I've had slight cramping randomly, 2 heavy migraines, and slight mood swings. I've read HORRIBLE articles about the Mirena prior to getting it but I made sure to be educated by my doctor of the possibilities of what could go wrong and only being recommended for 1st time mothers. I return for a 2 week check up to make sure my body hasn't rejected it and its still in place properly."
"I just had my 2nd IUD removed today and a new one placed. I had 3 children before the first was placed and have found placement and removal to be no big deal. Just quick cramping feeling. I had no adverse side effects and love having no periods. Good luck to anyone trying it, hope your experience is like mine"
"""I have had the mirena IUD for nearly 5 years now. Due to be removed in 10 days time and looking forward to the end of this chapter in my life!
Here are some issues I have had with the Mirena IUD. 
I've gained over 20kgs since having the mirena IUD. My self confidence is at rock bottom. 
Lethargy. Zero energy and cannot get enough sleep. 
On top of looking frumpy, and feeling tired - I developed horrible cystic acne. As a teenager my skin wasn't even this bad. The acne began around the 2 year mark, and got consistently worse over time. 
I tried remedial facial products, healthy eating, lots of fluid - unable to clear the acne, get the weight to budge. Only recently have I linked it to having the Mirena IUD.
I haven't had a period which has been great, but not worth the side effects that slowly creep up on you. 
Cannot wait to get this out!"""
"""INSERTION STORY:
I got Mirena inserted yesterday at my local Planned Parenthood. The insertion was VERY painful. I would rate it an 8/10, with 10 being ""pass out"" pain. Luckily, it lasted for about 3 minutes total. I admittedly cried and broke out in a cold sweat uncontrollably on the table, but remembered to breathe which saved me...remember to breathe!! I had to stay laying on the table for about 5 minutes after it was done because I felt dizzy. Honestly, I think my reaction was both a combination of pain and nerves. I read A LOT of horror reviews online before that appointment. Word to the wise: Don't psyche yourself out for an experience that could be drastically different from someone else's. 
For a few hours post insertion, I experienced a couple dizzy spells, and for the past 36 hours I've been spotting and cramping mildly. Would I do it again? I'll update at the three-month mark to tell you how it's going!"""
"I've always had really thick hair so the first and second year my hair was thinning I really didn't mind, till about the 3-4year I noticed a front bald spot. Losing all my hairline fuzz. And not to mention the acne. And finally the worst 5cm cyst."
"I LOVED IT!!! Best decision I ever made. I'm young, very active, involved in sports & go away a lot. So taking the pill was always bad for me. The insertion only felt a little crampy. Then they gave me a shot to ease the pain. I went in for 2 different check ups & everything was perfect! Most days I forget it's there. No reason to worry about the pill. I haven't experienced any weight gain or acne. Which is great!!! My last periods have been GREAT! No cramps, less flow. The only thing I would warn is you WILL spot quite a bit for the following 2 months after insertion. That is TOTALLY normal. And then it goes away. I feel so great & love having painless periods. I would recommend this to anyone! Young or old. Whether you've had kids or not. It's the best ever!!! Plus it last 5 years! The best thing!"
"I just had my mirena 2 and half hours ago for the first time.  I didn't search or had no idea that I will be in such pain while inserting it.  Up to now as I am writing this I still feel cramps and bit numbness on my arms.  It is a weird and painful feeling.  After couple of hours I will have ultra sound as the doctor recommended. We will see how it goes. Hopefully my body will get use to this because I'm freaking out about all the side effects  that I have just read."
"I LOVE my Mirena IUD. It honestly has been such a relief to me. Before I had gotten it, my periods were extremely irregular since I started when I was thirteen. I wouldn't get periods for two to three months at a time. So I tried the pill but I had to get taken off of it due to my migraines. I was seventeen when I first got my IUD. Now I have a high tolerance for pain so getting the Mirena placed was a breeze. They used ultrasound and were finished in less than five minutes! About a half hour after I left the office I had extreme cramping. Most painful thing I have ever felt, but it only lasted about two to three hours. After that for about three months I had light spotting. Now I don't have any bleeding after having it close to two years,  but I do get the occasional cramps here and there, but nothing significant. It really just depends on the person and what is right for them, but I always suggest the Mirena to all of my friends and family members!"
"The insertion was really painful. I was in pain the whole day. The next day I was better but I was cramping and felt lazy and dizzy. The day after that I was back to normal until I had sex. The first time he didn't feel it as much to where it bothered him. The 2nd time he hollered because it pinched him. I'm getting it removed this week and get the pill"
"I am on my third mirena (12 years since first insertion). I just love it! Haven't had a period since one month after my first insertion. No cramps, no mood swings. Insertion is not a pleasant experience but totally worth it for five years of care free bliss."
"I had been on the Nuvaring for 5yrs before deciding to pursue getting an IUD.I have been using Mirena for 1yr now and I love it. I wanted something that was care free. I had read many reviews b4 getting the mirena, I was so scared of how much it would hurt. The day I went in for the insertion I was in the room for a total of 5 mins. It hurts for the second that it passes through the cervix. The following few hours and days, you get period cramps periodically, just like a regular period.Then through out the next few months I would have cramping randomly (mostly b/c my body needs to get used to the hormones and stuff).The first few months I needed to use day liners for about 1-2 days,no divacups, or tampons needed. I now don't even need to use liners at all. I still get some spotting that may need a liner for 1 day but that is all. I haven't had any weight gain, acne at all. I would recommend the IUD to anyone who forgets about pills or just wants to not have to worry about taking pills on a regular basis."
"Oh boy, I would rate this zero if I could. I had mirena for 8 months. I started to get heavier bleeding and worse cramps around 5 months in and thought my body was still struggling to adjust. I finally got into my doctor and an ultrasound and now I have two ovarian cysts that are 6cm and 3cm in size. I am now back on my old birth control pill. It's not worth having to get laparoscopic surgery."
"I had the Mirena IUD inserted in 2013 when I was 20 years old. I had 3 months of light spotting on and off while my body was adjusting to the hormones. This was the first and only method of birth control I have had. I kept it in for the entire 5 years. I gave it a rating of 8/10 because it did its job in preventing pregnancy. However I developed acne, depression/anxiety, gained weight (went from 128 at time of insertion to 158). I was able to lose weight this final year with the IUD and currently weigh 143. However this was not easy at all! I had a strict diet and hiked 3.5 miles 4x per week. I felt like I had to work twice as hard in order to lose some weight. I had continued to get a monthly period for the entire 5 years with Mirena. Doctors just said that I was part of a small percentage of women who continue to have normal periods. Insertion and removal were both very painful as I had never given birth"
"I had my first child and decided I did not want another one any time soon after so I choose to go with Mirena. I had suffered from some  vaginal ph imbalance prior to my pregnancy. During my pregnancy the pH imbalance and 3/4 months after giving birth it was gone! But as soon as I started using the Mirena, BV started taking over my life. The method was effective for birth control but also I was not having much sex due to the constant BV. I would treat it and it would come right back within a few days! I tried several different treatments but then I finally found other reviews from women with the same horrible issues. It's something about the string that created the bacteria and creates a biofilm. So Mirena is not a good method for women who have sensitive pH systems."
"I love Mirena! After having my daughter, I went back on Alesse that I had used for years before and started experiencing a bunch of side effects such as mood swings and weight gain. My doctor suggested Mirena and I absolutely love it. The insertion wasn't nearly as bad as I thought (a couple of minutes of discomfort, plus a couple of hours of light cramping afterwards), and I have had zero side effects on Mirena. Love not having to remember to take a pill every day!"
"I really wanted to love the Mirena. I was nonstop spotting for about 2 months, but my period stopped after that. It did a great job preventing pregnancy and I loved how I didn't have to worry about it. What caused me to remove the Mirena was that it made me break out extremely badly and my boyfriend always felt the string (I even got it trimmed twice). I do have hormonal acne, so maybe that's why this made it so bad. Other than those two problems, the Mirena did do a very good job, but I think I'll stick to the pill."
"I had 3 children in 4 years.  After the last child was born in December 2009 we decided that 3 was enough to handle.  So I had the Mirena put in around December 2010.  I don't ever remember any head aches or bleeding or irregular periods. I had it for 5 years and it was great. I didn't attributes any major weight gain to the IUD. Since the 5 years was up in 2015 I had it removed. Since I was over 42 the time, we decided to give my body a break from the hormones. I also thought it less likely would get pregnant due to my advanced maternal age. Well I got pregnant within a year and had a miscarriage. I got pregnant again and had another miscarriage.  At 45 I didn't think the pregnancies and DNC was good for me.  I got another IUD March 2018. So far, I'm experiencing heavier periods, spotting and cramps. I did not have this experience previously. I'm told to wait it out at least 4 months.  I'm waiting it out, but I'm hesitant and thing of having it removed. I don't like how I feel now."
"""I suffer from ovarian cysts which is why I started taking birth control. My cysts became so large my doctor was worried about my ovary collapsing. I had at least 3 cysts burst which is VERY painful.
During the time I had the IUD, I was increasingly becoming more depressed, I had no interest in my friends or family and I just didn't feel right. My family doctor prescribed an anti-depressant and recommended follow up with a psychiatrist. After speaking with a nurse at the office she helped me realize it was the IUD that had changed my behavior. 
Like every medicine, every patient will be affected differently. If something doesn't feel right. If you just feel off. Make sure you talk with your doctor, they might be able to help."""
"I have Mirena for about 1 year and few months it was painful when it was inserted and I had heavy bleeding for along time. I was desperate so I went back to have it removed but the doctor talked me out of it  and told me to wait that all the heavy bleeding and spotting will go away. So I waited for about 3 months and it did go away - no more heavy bleeding I hardly get a period and no bad cramps. I did gain a little more weight and I do get headache sometimes but not often.  So my experience with mirena  was bad in the beginning but then it was fine hopefully this review can help you"
"After reading multiple horrible and scary reviews in the waiting room of my OBGYN, I was terrified of getting the mirena. But alas, I convinced myself that was "just all those horror stories and none of that would happen to me." Well it has been almost two years of the Mirena and it is me. I have gained 35+ pounds, have severe anxiety attacks (never have I had experience with this), depression, no libido, and crippling cramps/bloating. Sure the no period thing is sort of nice.....but I would rather just have a period than be experiencing all of the nonsense I am now. My only advice is that you know your limits. I had promised myself I would *stick it out* and see if anything got better with the side effects but they just kept getting worse. I am getting this taken out in 2 weeks and I COULD NOT be more excited. Also ask for options on birth control, because some of these doctors are very pushy with what they choose to recommend and not."
"""I had a complicated pregnancy and was recommended to not get pregnant again. Mirena placed at 7 weeks post partum after csection. I had bleeding basically for 4 months but if you do your research it says that it can take up to 6 months for your body to adjust to hormones. I've had it for 10 months and haven't had a period in 6 months. I have weight gain (approx 10lb) but it also happened when I stopped breast feeding so that's my fault. No symptoms of depression, sex drive is still kicking  and not pregnant. I'm not prone to depression or anxiety.  I LOVE the mirena. I recommend it to everyone I know for birth control or vaginal bleeding. 
Hope this helps! Give your body 6 months then if you hate it get it out. But give it a chance- you are changing your body's chemistry"""
"""I got the Mirena IUD for free at age 26 as a member of the test group when it was still being tested at Johns Hopkins. I had it for almost 4 years, I had it removed because it had slipped down some and I GOT PREGNANT. When it was removed it initiated a painful miscarriage that ended in a surgery. I ALSO had multiple ovarian cysts throughout the time I had it that kept coming for the next 8 or so years including a painful cyst the size of a baseball that had to be removed in emergency surgery. When I began to try to get pregnant about 2 years after having it removed I couldn't and never did again. I was diagnosed me with unexplained infertility but the obgyn did suggest that my issues were probably due to all the complications I had from the Mirena.. 
I can't stress this enough to women out there considering this type of IUD, USE ANOTHER FORM OF BIRTH CONTROL!! The risks with using this IUD are not worth the benefits in my opinion."""
"Be careful.  I thought this was would be a great decision.  Due to a heart condition, I could not longer take oral contraception.  My Mirena experience has been a nightmare. I am 8 months in and have scheduled to have it removed next week.  It was torture to have it placed and the cramping was awful for almost a week afterward.  I gained 5 pounds, had incessant bloating, depression, and hair growth on my face.  I am hopeful I will be freed from these horrible side effects."
"""I've had Mirena for 1.5 years. 
Insertion was uncomfortable but doable.
The first few days I had cervical cramps which made me double over sometimes. Advil worked fine to ease the pain.
The first five months I spotted constantly.
I had a bit of trouble normalizing my emotions the first month or two.
After the first 6 months no more periods or pain.
Anytime I'm really stressed, or have a drastic change in activity, attitude, or emotions I will spot for up to two weeks.
Overall Mirena is great. I would recommend it over any other birth control."""
"Had the mirena for almost a year. I'd always suffered from mild anxiety, but while I was on it it increased to almost a crippling level. I was developing depression and I couldn't shake the feelings. I also had absolutely no sex drive, so for me there was really no point in it. It was effective, of course, but it ruined just about everything else. I spotted constantly, was grumpy or nervous, and gained almost 20 pounds. I was at 118 and now I'm at 135. I got it out a week ago, I haven't weighed myself but I can already see the difference. My clothes are starting to fit like normal again, my mood swings are almost non existent. I got it out while on my “period” so I haven't had an experience with that just yet. But so far a few weights have been lifted off my shoulders"
"I had Mirena inserted in June 2017. My doctor suggested it since I suffer from really bad migraines (especially during my period). From June on I didn't get my period . Unfortunately I hated what it did to me - weight gain, acne on my face/neck and back, constantly feeling bloated, cravings/large appetite, and no sex drive. After 9 months I finally got it removed on Friday. I will say that it did help with my migraines  since I didn't have a drop in hormones like the pill . I went from 134 to my current weight 156."
"After my third child I decided on Mirena. Got it inserted 12/16. Bled for three months with horrible pains. I have had serious digestion problem. To date, I went from 145lbs to 165lbs (my heavest). I have had horrible mood swings, anxiety, hot flashes, back pains, joint pains, fatigue, constipation etc. Recently, I have started to feel like I'm having a heart attack. My bp is now 135/88. I have never had bp in this range. I'm getting it out this week. I can't take it anymore"
"I just got Mirena removed after about a year of having it and I couldn't be happier. It started out great: my periods were light to nonexistent, my hair grew faster, and of course I didn't need to worry about pregnancy. Fast forward to about month 5 and things took a turn for the worse. I had developed severe anxiety and moderate depression, struggled constantly with stomach/digestive issues, my acne went out of control, terrible mood swings...my list could go on and on. I finally did some research and found that plenty of women experienced the same as me, so I got it removed and have felt great since! No more skin issues, digestive problems or mental health issues. I just wish I had done a little more research before I got it."
"I had mirena for about 8 months. I was told to use that one instead of the copper IUD, so I did. I was expecting the inconsistent bleeding because that happens to me whenever I try a new birth control. I honestly hated the mirena. I felt I was going crazy, until I started researching online and found so many others with the exact same symptoms and thoughts. I gained about 17 pounds on the mirena, something I was told was not going to happen. I had a fast metabolism before this and wasn't too worried about what I was eating. Then I noticed the increase and of course when I got it removed they told me it increases your appetite. I also felt cramps so much worse than I used to, and the spotting was getting annoying because it lasted longer than my regular periods. I've had it out for about three days now and the bloated feeling I had is more minimal. I'm hoping my body goes back to its natural state fast and that I can work these pounds off. It definitely didn't work for me."
"I wanted to love Mirena! I had it inserted 8 weeks postpartum. My bleeding from having a baby had stopped a few weeks prior. As soon as I got Mirena, I started to bleed, and bled for 4 weeks straight, twice the amount I do on my normal periods. What made me decide to get it taken out was the fevers I was getting. I was getting 102 fevers randomly for a few days with no other other causes. Within 24 hours of getting it out, the fever immediately resolved. My body was definitely not a candidate for an IUD."
"""Mirena 2 yrs
I had Mirena inserted 6 wks after my child was born. I was very fit & active before my pregnancy. I gained 30 lbs & lost 20 the 1st wk after giving birth. After Mirena was inserted, I gained back the 20 lbs & decided to get back to eating right & working out. I thought I couldn't lose the weight bc of the stress on my body from work & not eating right.
Fast forward-now, had Mirena since April 2016. I have HORRIBLE depression, anxiety attacks from nothing, blurry vision, dramatic weight gain, went from 140-170 pounds, the most I've Ever weighed in my life! the more balanced I try to eat, the worse it seems to effect my weight gain. Not to mention I have NO sex drive anymore & am always moody & feel bad for my bf. We used to have amazing sex before Mirena. I looked up reviews & side effects after crying about it 1 day, I finally decided maybe it is Mirena. I made an appt for next week, I just hope after it's removed I get back to my fit & happy self. Hope this helps."""
"I experienced the worst cystic acne breakout along my jaw line and it eventually on my cheeks, chin, and breasts. The first few months I felt bloated all the time despite working out and not changing my diet. I have always been careful with my diet because I have Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and celiacs. It seemed that no matter what I ate or drank, my stomach was constantly bloated. Before insertion, I weighed 135 pounds. Now, after 7 months with it, I'm up to 160 pounds. I assumed this was because of the holidays and general life stress but I've been tracking my diet (1000-1300 calories a day) and exercising regularly and I have not been able to stop gaining weight nor have I been able to lose weight. I have no sex drive and began having vision problems (blurry vision/eye strain) and migraines. I have no history of migraines or blurry vision. I've experienced joint pain in my knees, ankles, shoulders and horrible back pain."
"I just had my Mirena removed yesterday after 3 months.  I hated it!  Cramps were awful, felt bloated, pressure after and during sex, face broke out, gained weight (so afraid to see how much, makes me so sad), what else?  Super moody and emotional all the time, bled almost every day since it was inserted.  BUT I wanted to go back to Nuvaring and my Dr said no since I am over 40.  So now what?   Anyone on here over 40 (43) and using any pills?"
"I wish I could rate this negatively 10000 times, the IUD messed up my entire life. I never used to get pimples but now have SUCH bad acne. While I had it in I bled for literally for 4 MONTHS STRAIGHT (until I got it taken out), sometimes my cramps were so bad that I couldn't even get out of bed. I was SO moody and I kept convincing myself that I needed to give it more time for my body to accept it. ALSO I could feel it during sex and it hurt so bad. I understand that it's almost 100% effective that you won't get pregnant but TBH I would've rather gotten pregnant than go through what I went through. NOT WORTH IT!!!!"
"Had my Mirena IUD inserted in 2007 right after my daughter was born. Had it removed and a new one reinserted once it had been 5 Years. I haven't had a period for 10 years, so it works. I've pretty much had Mirena for my adult life and never really put it together. I've experience really bad UTIs and bacterial infections after the second one was put in. Excessive sweating and hot flashes, depression, joint pains, bloating, and weight gain. Again all of this never registered. I'm not much of a complainer and just assumed aging was the problem. I'm now at my heaviest, went down 60 pounds after pregnancy and have gained it all back since! It's really hard to maintain or lose any weight! Exercise hasn't helped! Went to get it removed and now the doctor can't find it! Having to get and ultrasound to see where it is. Can't wait to have it removed and see if that helps all my issues. I'm only posting this so other women don't feel like they're just crazy."
"I am 30, never been pregnant, wanted effective birth control that wouldn't potentially trigger depression. I had my Mirena inserted on January 20th, 2018. Six days later I started bleeding. It's now the 10th straight day of bleeding - started heavy like a normal period, and is now daily spotting, the sort I would usually get on the second-last day or so. I specifically sought out the Mirena because I wanted to decrease/eliminate my period, which would normally be 4 days long. I'm pretty disappointed with this outcome and I don't know how long I can stick with it to see if it'll get better. Time to go back to the doctor."
"""35 year old with 2 children. I've been on Mirena for 6 years now. I completely love it. I was on depo for 15+ years prior. When first had it inserted I had my normal (horrible bleeding/cramping) for 2 months straight. I have not had my period since nor do I have cramping, at all! I've experienced some cramping but it's from ovulating. Also, I've actually lost quite a bit of weight while being on mirena! 
***** People need to realize that everyone's body is completely different. Something that doesn't work for you, may be perfect for someone else.*****"""
"Don't get the Mirena!!!! I had it for 5 years and I liked it. The second one I got put in did not go like that. I started getting really bad panic attacks, no energy, bad mood swings, gaining weight, anxiety, headaches, body tingling etc. I went yesterday to get it taken out!!!!!! I feel better already!!!! Please be careful."
"I was very hesitant to get the IUD inserted because many women my age (18) had no good things to say. However oral birth control was not working for me so I decided to get the mirena. The ONLY downside to my IUD  was the insertion itself. The cramping pain was very intense during the procedure and lingered for about 30 mins after. I've heard that some doctors can give you a numbing shot for the insertion and I would highly recommend this if, like me, you are a young woman who has never given birth or experienced horrible period cramps before. I spotted for about a month after getting the IUD, but after that month I no longer get my period! I also lost about 10 pounds with absolutely no lifestyle changes...just didn't have all of the hormones from oral birth control in my system anymore! The experience has been amazing, no period, not having to worry about contraception, and no more hormonal acne. I would 100% getting the IUD."
"Well I've literally just had the mirena coil fitted and I'm not going to lie it did hurt but just like the worst period pain you could think of. I've tried everything before, pills, implants etc and I'm hoping this will be the best option. I've never had children and was pre-warned to take painkillers. I'm having really bad cramps and I am also bleeding but hopefully everything sorts itself out. It takes 10 minutes and it's over so don't be put off. I also suffer with panic attacks and still managed to get through it."
"Mirena does the job but the constant spotting/bleeding makes it not worth it. When I first got Mirena inserted, I bled for 3-4 weeks straight. My periods are now irregular and I can never plan anything around it because it comes unexpectedly and lasts for 1 week. After my period, I begin spotting for another 1-2 weeks. Light bleeding, nothing heavy, but enough bleeding to affect my sex life. The spotting is CONSTANT and I only get a few days of relief a month. 1-2 weeks of spotting, 1 week of light bleeding, a couple days to MAYBE week of nothing (if I'm lucky), which is the only time I'm able to have sex. And worse, sex seems to trigger more bleeding so I can only have intercourse like one time a month before the cycle starts again. I'm approaching the 1 year mark and I'm so frustrated! I thought it'd be better after 9 months but it's not. I'll stick it out for another 6 months or so, but if this keeps up, I'll just switch to pills. The never ending bleeding is too much of a hassle."
"""I had the Mirena IUD from 2010-2015 and let me tell you the insertion was the worst pain of my life and the doctor wasn't even sure she had placed it correctly! No one told me the Mirena was more geared towards women who had already had kids and I have not. I nearly passed out from the pain and wish they had told me to take painkillers 2 hours before the procedure instead of 20 minutes (takes over an hour for medication to filter my bloodstream). 
Overall, this IUD did its job and I had little acne and my periods went away almost completely in a short time. I did experience a little weight gain though, from 120 to 150 pounds so that might be a deal breaker do some people. Would I get another Mirena? Probably not, there's a lawsuit out right now for this."""
"I LOVE the mirena so much. I've had it for a little over 2 years now and it is amazing. I can't take birth control pills due to my epilepsy medication that would interfere with the pills, so my doctor recommend this (and also I am so forgetful I would probably forget to take the pill everyday too) so you never have to worry about it! For me, getting it inserted just felt like the strongest cramp I have ever felt but ended quick. My periods are much lighter which is a lifesaver, but I feel personally they can last a couple days more but I'd pick that over what kind of periods I used to have. Recommend to all!!!!!"
"""Have had mostly bad experiences. 
Gained 20 pounds, am largest I've ever been, and I'm only 5'3. Breast are quite large. Breast tenderness for 8 months.
Depression, fatigue, moodiness for first 8-9 months. Cramps for 7 months, crippling at times. Spotting for 7 months, only bleeding once a month now. Had an unpleasant vaginal smell for months.
Body hair growth and some light back acne. Libido was really high for a while, has tapered off but am still sexually active. I can feel the device occasionally
Only + are less to no face acne anymore, no periods, convenient, and no pregnancies so far.
Looking for smaller and lower dosage IUD's"""
"I got Mirena inserted 09/17, 26 years old, never had children. Nearly fainted on insertion, had intense pain for about 6 weeks with constant bleeding which fully subsided at about the 8 week mark. I'm now over 4 months in, periods are very very light, I get some bursts of pain every now and then but nothing like I experience at the beginning, and its constantly getting better. I had a really rough experience at the start but definitely worth it to stick through in my opinion"
"It seems like in my case it is a love hate relationship. I have had mine in for about 10 months. The insertion was easy for me. The first 2 weeks I spotted and the first 2 months I had spotted maybe 1 to 2 weeks out of the month after that no more. There is things I like about it. I love not having a period and not thinking about it . My libido has gone up some as well and no acne. The cons : at first my boyfriend could feel the strings and it would scratch him. I had went from 145 lbto 164lb and can't seem to get the weight off especially in stomach area. Last , I keep getting BV infections. ..other than those couple things I actually like it."
"DO NOT USE THIS! If I could give a zero I would. This is awful stuff.  My 15 yr old had it inserted after laparoscopy. Woke in incredible pain. Removed it less than 2 wks later because the cramping and back pain was so severe. Started bleeding two days after removal and hasn't stopped. Let me point out she never went off sprintec.  They now have her doubled down on sprintec to try to control her bleeding - which is at day 18 as I write this. Her migraines have also picked back up. STAY AWAY!!!"
"""Hi All, 
I have been reading reviews like crazy when I had to get it done, I was all scared and not comfortable before the insertions. However, I still got it done because I was having really heavy periods before (I inserted the Copper coil before) because of that I started to get anemic and depressed. Hated Copper coil!! Now I got Mirena and happy with the results but the only really bad side effect of Mirena is that my belly is gone bigger (understandable because I don't get periods anymore) also acne issue on my forehead! Bu good contraceptive method."""
"I've had my mirena in for nearly a year and I love it. I'm only 23 and have no children. Inserting it was a bit painful but it's over in 2 seconds and my periods stopped straight away. Did get really bad cramps but that was one of the main reasons having the coil was to help with unbearably painful cramps and heavy bleeding. Once you get past 2 months you will start loving it. No more heavy periods and no more pain. Do not always listen to the reviews on here. Especially the bad ones. The reviews put me off having it done and I was petrified lying on the bed but I'm a big baby and cry at any type of pain. And I got through it. Was walking around within minutes of having it inserted."
"So I just got the mirena placed about 3 days ago so I'm not exactly sure how my body is going to react to it BUT you all have to stop reading reviews you see online and just do it. I got so worked up about getting it done and it was no where near as bad as the reviews I read. I'm 22 years old and I've never given birth, the insertion literally felt like period cramps. Afterwards the cramping did get a lot worse but subsided after a few hours. I will update my review after a few months but please stop reading bad reviews and just go for it!"
"I am 27. I have had mirena for four years now and I'm going to get it removed. I have been having hot flashes every day for years now. I never put two and two together, until I recently saw my endocrine specialist who told me to get it removed. I have terrible back pain, right ovary pain, acne, can't loose weight, extreme excessive sweating, pain with sex, and headaches. I just learned to deal with it until recently I started sweating more and got longer hot flashes. I can't wait to feel better. I really think it can work for some people but just be careful. I'm upset I went this long without even thinking this could be the mirena."
"""First of all, before you get mirena, know your body. My body always reacted strongly to toxins and different changes. Like bloating, constipation or acne after eating to much sugar/salt/lipids... you will know of that is your case.
So the first month with Mirena was really painful. Uterine cramps at every end of the day and some spotting. From the first month I completely lost my period. I also completely lost my libido, which has never been so strong as I had always took hormones as birth control (previously on pills) 
For the past 2 years I had mild acne like 3-4 pimples every month. But with Mirena, my face was covered with it. Mostly around my mouth and on my forehead (but then it spread to my cheeks) I lost all my self confidence. I removed mirena after 6 months and my doctor gave me minocycline 500mg 2x a day + topical/acid cream. 
I am now on IUD Mona Lisa (copper IUD) and I didn't have a single cramp after its insertion + my libido has never been this strong 
??it's 100% natural, no hormones, and cost pennies comparatevly to Mirena!
"27 years old and never had children. I was deciding between the kyleena and mirena and decided to go with the mirena based on my providers recommendation. I've tried all different types of birth control pills and all have given me bad side effects (weight gain, depression, low libido, acne, etc.). I was so nervous about my upcoming IUD insertion and after reading so many HORROR stories, including here on this site. However, so far, I have had the BEST experience! The pinching of the cervix during the insertion hurt a little but afterwards, I felt fine. Barely had cramps the rest of the day. And I have low pain tolerance too! So happy I got the IUD! Will update in a few months about my progression with it."
"Love the MIrena! Yes inserting it was like 3 seconds of hell if you've never had a child before and it caused a month-long monster period and 3 moths of excessive cramping, but almost 3 years down the road now, it's easily one of the best decisions I ever made. I no longer fear pregnancy scares like my other young twenties friends and has saved me a small fortune on period products. I have super light periods only lasting a few days every 3-5 months which are very tolerable. I was unable to continue BC pills because even on the lowest dose I was experiencing eye-blinding migraines. (While driving, yikes!) so my doctor recommended and IUD and my parents insurance covered it too so it didn't cost me a dime! Overall, very happy with my mirena"
"I got an IUD in because I didn't want to have to worry about my birth control anymore. The first few months (3-6) weren't great and I had light bleeding on and off. My acne did get a little worse and has stayed like that until getting it treated.  So I did have side effects but I would still 100% do it all over again and will once my 5 years are up. Now, I will either not have a period or it will be very light for just a few days. Getting it in was uncomfortable but after that you don't notice it at all. When I was on the pill, I was still so worried about getting pregnant that we still used condoms. I can finally have sex without constantly worrying since it is one of the most effective forms of birth control."
"I've been using this birth control for over 10 years and I love it!  I've had zero issues and zero blood since I've been using the Mirena.  I will admit it's not fun getting it inserted if you haven't had a baby come through your cervix but it is definitely worth it!"
"I got the Mirena 3 days ago and am very pleased with it.  Previously I had Paragard Copper IUD and it was so horrendously irritating with uncomfortable acidic brown copper smelling discharge for the three months I had it in, and brought on severe panic attacks, anxiety, depression, and mood swings. I had my boyfriend take it out for me  because it was so horrible I couldn't wait for the dr office to open Monday. My emotional symptoms were gone almost immediately and the stinging acidic copper odor brown discharge went away within a few days. Awful experience having gross copper coils rust away in you're uterus. I just got Mirena & no pain during procedure, no cramping after, barely a brown tinge in clear mucous after...heavenly!!"
"""Okay this is strictly based on my IUD experiences till date.
I'm an almost 28 year old, quite active with normal pain threshold female. Exactly 16 days ago, I went to my gyno's for an IUD and ended up getting the paragard inserted because It was my first ever birth control, and I really did not want hormones because of an incident I had with plan B the one and only time I took it. I went during my lunch break, and honestly, didn't feel much pain just little cramping during the insertion BUT my doctor used numbing medicine so I guess that helped. Fast forward 14 days later still bleeding, I had paragard removed during my period to be replaced by mirena, and insertion was more painful than with the numbing medicine. So ask to be numbed!!"""
"35 yo w/1 child. Mirena was inserted 2.5 y ago. Procedure was not a big deal, cramping & bleeding wasn't an issue. No regular periods but do have spotting here and there. Nice to not have periods, seems to be effective as birth control. Issues: My always clear skin (I've never had acne) is oily and dry at same time & breaking out non stop. Face, hair line, neck, back. They leave scars. I've always been optimistic, easygoing, up to anything and happy and now I am extremely depressed, unhappy & moody. Sad commercials make me cry. I don't want to do anything, go anywhere, no matter how I motivate myself. Constant tiredness. Weight gain in belly, looks like a pouch. Pain in joints. Only recently put 2+2 together to figure out it started after Mirena. Removing!"
"Extremely effective birth control that makes me feel confident and safe as a single young woman. My friends have had pregnancy scares while taking the pill so it is nice that Mirena removes all that fear since I don't risk pregnancy by forgetting to take a pill. However, the insertion was excruciating and an absolutely horrible experience. I don't regret it though because it has completely stopped my menstruation saving me so much money on period products."
"It came out"
"From the get go it was not good. Yes the doctors gave me the informational pamphlet and yes they listed the possible side effects, but even after reading many many reviews of mirena that stated how bad the thing messed with some people's hormones I thought... no not me. I should be fine, plus the doctor assured me I would probably be period free and most women go symptom free. Birth control that i've used in the past never affected me much, but mirena was no bueno for me. Weight gain, terrible sluggishness, acne like a mother and continuous bleeding. I seriously felt depressed absolutely zero motivation to work out or do active things like I normally do. I got it removed right away."
"First Mirena inserted in 2006  by a trained nurse in the UK after my third kid. I can't recall it being painful but did take painkillers before and after the procedure and my periods stopped immediately - FANTASTIC. Moved to the OZ and had it changed during a medical procedure - under aesthetic in 2011. Also no problems what so ever! At the beginning of this year I started spotting and my GP advised I needed the Mirena changed.  Gynaecologist would not do it in his rooms as he said I had never had a natural birth  (3 - C-sections) so had it done under GA.  It has now been 3 months and I have been bleeding CONSTANTLY! Honestly have had enough, mood swings are awful, feeling faint and oily skin ever since! - Seriously want it out now!!"
"I got my iud put in in August and I literally have not stopped bleeding since. My doctor told me I could bleed for up to 6 months (it's been 3) but I didn't think that it would be CONSTANT. The first 2 weeks were  awful. Given, I don't have the highest pain tolerance, but I was truly in a lot of pain for about a month after. Getting the IUD put in was so painful for me. The actual process only took about 10 minutes, but I sat in the room being fanned by a poor nurse and her giving me juice so I didn't pass out for an hour. Hopefully, after 6 months all will be normal and that the pain will be worth it."
"I was on the Mirena for 4 months, and I received it after having my first child. At first, it was amazing. Insertion did not hurt me what so ever. I did take medicine afterwards, but the day after I felt back to normal. Now, a few months later, all the side effects are popping up. I felt alone, depressed, and suicidal. I felt like I was drowning. I have constant headaches, a weight gain of 20 pounds in FOUR months. I thought this was all just due to my new postpartum life, but after reading others saying they gained weight I decided to get it out. Sex is incredibly painful for me and feels like I'm being stabbed. Periods lasting 2 weeks, then off 2 weeks, then again. This drug is terrible, although I really wish it had worked for me."
"I was really scared to get the IUD but had it inserted 9 months ago after being on and off the pill. Due to health reasons I had to choose an option that was low or no estrogen. I had mine inserted under anesthesia due to LEEP procedure ( Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure) done on my cervix  a few years earlier. After insertion the cramps were really bad and I had a lot of bleeding. I had bad cramps on and off for a few months and quite a bit of spotting. I still get short brief cramps around my period. My period is longer than before but is very light and I can use just pantyliners. Compared to what I went through with the pill Mirena has been a lot better and it's nice not having to think about it.  My advice is everyone is different, so you won't know if it's for you until you try it."
"I have had Mirena 5 years and it worked perfectly and had no problems... Then I had it taken out and another put in. Ever since I have had migraines and acne on chin and back and sometimes I get a sharp pain in the area where the mirena is placed, it hasn't moved, or embedded. I don't understand how the first one was so perfect and now the past year with second one has been so awful... I don't know what to do at this point!?"
"After taking Acetimenaphen one hour prior to my appointment as directed by my doctor, I experienced no pain having the device installed. I did, however, have pretty painful cramping for four hours about after 30 minutes after Mirena was inserted on September 27th. (2 weeks after my last period had ended). I had light spotting for 2 days, then my period came a week later as scheduled on October 5th. I had no severe cramping/migraines as I typically do and my flow went from very heavy (before Mirena) to mild/light (after Mirena). Although my period ended after the typical 7 days, I continued to have light spotting/discharge for 21 days until my period started again on October 31st. I'm now at 28 days of having some sort of blood/discharge with no relief in sight. My sex life is non-existent, the hormones are also affecting my mood (not in a good way) and I've developed acne at 42 on my usually pristine skin. A 3-6 month adjustment window filled with acne, mood swings, no sex and irregular bleeding is not looking so appealing. I'm now considering removal."
"So this is the 3rd Mirena that I've had. I'm 23 and we have 3 children. Now I never had any issues with my first 2 mirena , but iIve noticed since I got my last one back in August 2016 after my 3rd baby that I've been having constant bleeding, horrible acne and my sex drive is out the window. It's like I can't even get a damn orgasm and trust me our sex was GREAT before this 3rd one.  My mood is just so ugly and I get so emotional sometimes ! Definitely going to get it removed!!!"
"I have a love/hate relationship with Mirena. When it was inserted, it was uncomfortable for sure. I also bled like the river nile for about a month straight, my body took a break for a week and then bled again for another 2 weeks. I had it placed in June, it's now the end of October. I spot every now and then and almost always have brown discharge. However, I am prone to long horrendous periods and migraines without BC and since the initial bleeding has stopped, my migraines are fewer and the bleeding seems to be as well. BUT, I have acne. On my chin, neck and back and that is really frustrating. Weight hasn't changed, but bloating is present, and breasts are always tender. Yeast infections too. I'm considering removal."
"I am 24 years old  I chose mirena for the simply fact that birth control pill was killing my sex drive. However, on January 2018 is going to be a year with Mirena and I have notice gained weight, my belly looks different I feel bloated I don't feel slim and sexy like before. I had noticed acne on my back and break-outs on my face and forehead. I'm thinking to have it removed but I'm not sure now what contraceptive to use."
"Hello, so far  I feel okay... I just literally got the Mirena at 12pm today. The reviews I just read has me super scared but I'm going to do updates along with changes in my weight.  Right when I got it, it felt like the starting of my menstrual cycle. (felt like everything was falling out) the insertion felt like a mean as pinch and as if someone was drawing a straight line with a sharp pencil inside you but it was really really quick!!!!! I took a motrin right afterwards so now at 2:31 I feel fine!!!!!"
"I decided to try the Mirena since my friend said it worked wonders. I had it put in April. Had nothing but heavy periods and terrible pain. Found out it had displaced and another put in. (July). Its now October and I have not had even a slight break from the bleeding and the pain. I asked the doc if he would consider a Hysterectomy because I have other issues that would benefit from one. But they refuse. I'm 21 with 2 kids, and have a constant battle with my girlie bits. So far in my experience I would not recommend the Mirena to Anyone."
"""Hidden internal organ life threatening  dangers after 6yrs of device removal. 10yrs. 17 Hospitals 8 surgery's Cancer, Disease, Osteoporosis, permanent life long damage including Medically Mirena Iud Homelessness for 5yrs. in/out hospitals fighting for my life! 
Let me not forget the countless non educated Doctors & Hospitals who had no clue until it was almost too late for my life!
Now 10yrs later Intracranial Hypertension - Pseudotumor Cerebri. 
Heart Enlarged & Several years of BP being in 200's, latest as of October BP 243/102. Currently working with multiple Doctors. 
So please tell me how myself and thousands of women from Europe, Germany & U.S. are experiencing these IUD traumas! The Dangers will be EXPOSED!!"""
"I have had mirena for last 4yrs. No problem since I've had it and I love it"
"I got it put in during my  six weeks post baby appointments after having my son who is now five. I had it taken out when he was  two in a half and I haven't got pregnant since. It had shifted but they never told me I couldn't have kids. I haven't even got  infertility testing  done yet"
"""I am 32 years old, (2 children 11 & 2) & just had the mirena removed yesterday, after having it for 1 year. It's the only form of birth control I have ever used, but I have friends that had used pill, shot, the arm implant & Mirena. Most agree that The mirena was the best.  Few said that theirs didn't stay in place & one said she had to have surgery to remove because it actually embedded to a part of her body it shouldn't have.
The only issue I have had this past year is weight gain and irregular periods. I had the mirena removed to see if I feel better without it, if so I'll have to try to find another form of birth control, if not I'll probably go back to the mirena. 
Now that it's been removed I'm having major cramps though"""
"I've had the mirena IUD for 5 months now and so far I've loved it!! I haven't had any weight gain or acne symptoms that everyone talks about in their reviews. I bled for maybe three days after the procedure and haven't had a period since. The procedure sucks but its bearable. It felt like intense cramping for maybe a minute then it's over. I suggest taking 800mg of ibuprofen before and after because I did have cramps and dizziness for the whole day. I switched to mirena from oral BC because oral BC made me absolutely crazy (crying at every little thing, irrational, emotional, blowing up at people for no reason, ect) ladies DON'T LET THE REVIEWS SCARE YOU because every body reacts differently.. you truly have to try it out for yourself!!"
"I had hair loss and lack of appetite when I had Mirena.  I always felt sick.  When I got it out I had delayed return of fertility for 3.5 years."
"My Mirena caused severe cramping 4 days a week, an inflamed cervix, and caused weight gain. Doc kept saying I was just adjusting. After 1.5 years I got it out and feel so much better. Seriously consider how this can affect your health."
"I was really excited for Mirena because I suffer from seveer cramps and a very heavy period. This definitely helps that. But my period was irregular, showed up for 2 weeks at a time sometimes, every other week, after sex....there was no rhyme or reason and incredibly annoying. I also had other symptoms that I did not link to Mirena initially until I started doing research and it all made sense. Depression and anger slowly crept in. I chalked it up to being exhausted all the time (another symptom) and not having patience now that I had 2 kids instead of 1. Terrible mood swings. I gained 30 pounds. I always had acne on my chin. My hair thinned terribly. Again, I thought these were from having another baby, but 2 1/2 years later & its the same"
"Yes, it was quite painful to insert even with two Tyleno-3 tablets and a numbing gel,  however totally worth it as birth control. But... I've gained 60 pounds in 8 months! I'm eating very clean - no sugar, no junk food, barely any carbs and I'm a heifer now!!! Going to my gynecologist tomorrow and getting it removed, I can't deal with this anymore!"
"DON'T GET THE MIRENA IUD. I wanted to love the Mirena, I really did. I'm 23, no kids & wanted a low maintaince birth control. Insertion & initial cramping were pretty bad but thats normal. I liked my IUD for the first year or so. Didn't gain weight like I did on the pill & no real side effects. But my love for the IUD turned to hatred when I discovered it had given me an OVARIAN CYST. I started having an excruciating pain deep in my abdomen. The pain was right next to my hip bone and was unlike ANY pain I've ever had. It would radiate down my leg & up my back. Some days I couldn't even stand up or go to work. Finally got an ultrasound and discovered it was a cyst so now its out and I feel SO much better. Please don't get the Mirena!!"
"My mirena was inserted less than a month ago. The side effects were okay initially with the cramping. I did have spasms in my rectal area. I had a follow up to check for the strings  and the strings could not be found. An ultrasound was completed and the IUD was found out of place. I had to get an x-ray as well to confirm the position. Now I have to have outpatient surgery to get it removed. I hoped that I wouldn't have to go through this. But I guess that I may have been at a higher risk since I'm nursing. I will not use this again."
"I used to suffer from extremely heavy periods and cramping that interfered with my daily life. I would have to take time off work, rearrange my entire schedule and in general have an awful time with PMS before my period. Since getting my Mirena, I have had NONE of those symptoms. I finally can live my life without worry that my period will interrupt it. I do not get a period and I do not have any PMS symptoms. It's clear to me that Mirena changed my life for the better."
"""After having my first child, I decided to try a long-term method of birth control. I was open to the IUD but very scared about the insertion. I went to planned parenthood and loved their customer service. They gave me pain medicine before insertion which I was VERY happy about! I felt only a little pressure when the nurse inserted it and no pain at all afterwards. It has now been almost 5 months since the insertion and I have yet to get a period. Do not know what to expect but am so far very pleased with my decision! Would definitely recommend!
STOP reading reviews! I did and I got super scared and almost didn't go through with it. Every body is different but recommend you carry pain meds w you if worried about pain during procedure"""
"I had my Mirena in for only a month- I seemed to be adjusting fine with normal spotting 3 weeks after, cramping only the first 42 hours it was in (until my next period came) BUT I happened to go to the eye Dr. Where they diagnosed me with early stages of papilledimia, or swelling of the optic nerves due to excess cerebral spinal fluid built up in my brain. I have been experiencing all of the symptoms of a large brain tumor, while slowing going blind for the last month. I now need to see a brain specialist to make sure I'm not continuing to be effected even though I got the IUD removed- when caught early, the damage can be reversible. My Dr. Was not aware of this as a possible side effect."
"""I am on my second Mirena. I had my first one fitted at my Post partum check up in 2007. I had it for 6 years. That's right, a year over the recommended and approved time frame. The first time insertion was not painful. Periods stopped after a year.  When I had it removed, my doctor at the time refused to give me another one (different doctor than the one who inserted the first) and instead talked me into the Depo shot.  After a miscarriage and extremely heavy periods and a doctor change I just had another Mirena placed a week ago. Insertion wasn't painful, just uncomfortable. I had no bleeding or spotting. Absolutely none. I cramped a little the first day, but none since.
The Mirena isn't for everyone, but it has been a life saver for me!"""
"Insertion was incredibly painful even with meds before hand. But it was quick. I have PCOS, I'm 41 and have been off balance hormonally and now I am feeling pretty great after a week with these hormones balancing me out. As for me, cramping, bloating and back pain are still there, although not as strong. Cervix is still a little raw but nothing some Motrin can't alleviate."
"Mirena has been the best birth control I've tried and I've tried them all! Yes insertion was painful and I did have a decently long time (about 3 months) where I would spot or bleed but after having it for 4 years now, I can honestly say it's so worth it. I have had no weight or mood changes, period completely stopped after the three month bleeding and ever since I've nearly forgot about it. My skin has always been oily so I can't blame it for that and I haven't experienced cramping, my ex said he could feel it but I think it was just because I had it inserted partway into our relationship and he was paranoid because my current boyfriend says he doesn't notice anything abnormal. I can't wait to get my new one!"
"I am 18 and have never gave birth and was previously on the pill. I got mirena almost a month ago. My gynecologist gave me misoprostol to take 3 hours before the procedure and 600 mg of ibuprofen. The insertion was extremely painful for me, but the procedure only took about 10 minutes. After the procedure I had some cramping and a brown discharge for the rest of the day. The next day I woke up and felt great. Ever since I have not had any problems except for some bleeding the first 2 weeks which is normal and easily controlled by using a light pad. The insertion was very painful, but SO worth not worrying and about getting pregnant and taking the pill perfectly. If you can take a day of pain I recommend this full heartily. Mirena is awesome"
"Spectulum was hugely painful, one of the worst pains I have ever felt to be honest. Insertion was not comparable to that for me but was quite uncomfortable. So far bleeding was for the first two days only, no cramps, no discomfort. A lot of checking there to figure out whether there was too much or too little wire sticking out so that has been a frightening thing. Breasts hurt like anything but so far definitely worth it!"
"""This is my 3rd device & I have had the mirena for over 13years. On my 3rd insert my gynaecologist asked if I have been depressed and I said yes thinking it was because I was working full time single mum and was tired. I finally had counselling and felt good again but after a few weeks I was drained.
However during these years, I was deeply depressed and severe anxiety issues, on medication and after speaking to my female doctor we worked out it was the bloody MIRENA, all those years of feeling awful. Use Condoms instead, trust me it's not worth it. I am 41 & love being myself again."""
"Do not get the mirena! It will ruin your life!"
"I had it inserted a week ago. It was uncomfortable but not painful and it was a quick procedure. The doctor said to expect cramps. I have them, they are to the point they keep me awake at night. I'm hoping they go away soon or I may have to ask for a prescription for pain. I'm glad I don't have to take the pill anymore though."
"I just had this inserted recently, so I can't speak to the long term effects of it, but after reading a review on here from someone who claims the pain "isn't excruciating"... I beg to differ. I took 400mg of ibuprofen two hours before I was on the procedure table (in hindsight I should have taken 800mg). I am a 21yr old female who has never had children, with extremely light periods that last about 3 days (prior to having this inserted). I nearly passed out from insertion, I was hyperventilating with a death grip on the assistant's hand and she had to sit with me for about 10 minutes afterwards while I ate a banana and drank water because I couldn't feel my face and was still dizzy. Have someone on-call to drive you home."
"All these awful reviews. I thought I'd share my positive experience. After lots of reading I decided to go with the mirena IUD. I was two months Post baby when I hard it inserted, for me I felt the speculum was more uncomfortable (10 weeks post baby) then the actual insertion. I didn't have any dizziness, I bleed for a couple days (but it was no more then a period), I also didn't need to take any pain meds, I have no weight gain or change in my skin. Since my period hadn't come back at that point I only had the couple days of bleeding. I'm 2 years into having my IUD and I haven't had a period to date. I still feel like I get PMS from time to time and I've have had some lite bleeding on occasion. But it's been a great form of birth control."
"""I was scheduled to get my mirena IUD, so like most of you on the site, I did my research and read every review possible! I freaked myself out bad. So my appointment comes around and I was sitting on the bed shaking with fear. My doctor comes in and gets me prepped and begins the insertion process. During the whole process I didn't even feel hardly anything. It felt like a child was sitting on my lower abdomen, didn't even hurt, it was just pressure. Easy and very very tolerable pressure. When I got home I just took a midol with some  Ibuprofen  and I was set for the whole night. The next day I had mild cramps but it wasn't bad. 
I spotted for 3 weeks and thats it! I am now period free! *recommend you are on your period when you get it inserted"""
"I absolutely love the Mirena! I got it put in when I was 19 years old. I had numbing shots prior to insertion. I didn't find it to be painful at all. I've now had it for a little over 2 years and I can't believe it's still good for 3 more! When my 5 years are up I'll definitely get it again. It's completely stopped periods and been very effective against pregnancy. I do occasionally get cramps still, but I had those prior so I'm not sure Mirena is to blame. This has worked wonders for me!"
"I've been on birth control for a while now due to horrendous cramps and excessively heavy cycles. And I've always been an anti-kid-having lady so hey it works for me. So I ended up switching from the nuva ring (which I loved) to the Mirena. I'm not going to complain about pain because we're all different and to be honest, it really wasn't terrible, a little discomfort. But I've had my Mirena for a little over 2 years now and I've gained 40-50 pounds with no change in diet, I have absolutely no energy for anything (I work and go to school full time), and I'm recently married with no sex drive. At first the Mirena was a God send, no period, no pill, no hassle or worries. But now I'm counting down the days this evil thing is gone."
"The mirena iud has changed my life. I have PCOS and was having really embarrassing, random, and prolonged periods. My doctor suggested the mirena IUD. As a woman  that has never had any children, the insertion of the device was excruciating. However, that should be expected when you think logically, having a foreign object inserted into your uterus isn't exactly natural lol... I had random/light bleeding for about 6-8 weeks after I had it inserted. Insertion sucked, give your body TIME to adapt. This IUD is the best thing that has ever happened to me. I've had it for almost two years now and I SWEAR BY IT. Patience to let your body adapt and you will NOT be let down."
"Please think carefully before you opt for the Mirena. I was a healthy 26 year old who had no problems on Microgynon however the Doctors scared me into looking into progesterone only options. On insertion, it wasn't an easy in-out and I was screaming in pain to the point I almost asked them to stop. Thinking this was normal, I persevered. Afterwards I was in hysterics because the pain was so severe and lasted for a good few hours. After bleeding for 3 months solid I wanted it out. After numerous tests where they couldn't find it in my uterus, it turns out it perforated my uterus on insertion (appaz I have a forward facing uterus) and it is in my pelvic region. Ive been told to think about a laparoscopy or whether to leave the bloody thing in"
"I got the device inserted on May 2, 2017. My doctor advised me to take ibuprofen 1 hour before the procedure. I'm glad I did. It was a crampy feeling after and I bled a little then it stopped. I got mine I  1 week before my period. When my period started it did not stop for 2 months! Light, medium and heavy flow. I had no idea what the day would be. It's been a few weeks and no period. I break out with acne some and get bloated but nothing major. It's worth it not having a period."
"""The warnings are real. The horror stories are real. Do not put this device into your body. It was excruciating once inserted and I bleed heavily and felt pain worse than birthing contractions for over 3 weeks. It lead to horrendously heavy bleeds, cycle was completely thrown out of whack, mental health deteriorated, suicidal tendencies. Had to wait for 2 months to be removed. Bleed extremely badly for 12 days solid and was hospitalised. The pain was horrific.
It took at least 12 weeks to feel better and about 12 months for my cycle to return to my normal.
I think this medication should be banned. I have 4 close friends who have all had horrific experiences with this medication."""
"I've had my Mirena for a year and 8 months. I'm a 40 yr old with 2 children. Yes it is very effective for birth control, BUT I have had unexpected weight gain of 40-50 pounds! I am so depressed because of it, because the only difference in my life is the Mirena. I also wake up with low back pain occasionally, and I did have spotting for several months the first year pretty much every week for many months. I cannot explain this weight gain, I am ready for removal. Also I have developed Bacterial Vaginosis at Least once from the Mirena. And I was not sexually active at the time and I'm in a monogomus relationship, so yeah..it sucks..."
"""This is for the insertion only. 
Don't listen to the reviewers that say the insertion is excruciating. I read all the horror stories on the internet and waited to get the mirena for 2 years because of them. 
I finally got it today and the pain wasn't as severe as I thought. It was some weird, intense cramps and uncomfortable pressure and stopped as soon as the doctor was finished and I've experienced NOTHING since. The sensation lasted for maybe 3 minutes total, I couldn't believe how quick the procedure was. Worrying about the pain was the worst part. I was able to sit up right away (no dizziness or nausea) and drive myself around running errands. I've had some minor spotting since but that's about it. 
I'm 28 with no kids. I took 3 advil."""
"I've had the mirena for exactly a week now and I haven't really had any problems. During the insertion I bearly had any cramping and it only lasted for about 5 minutes. I bled quite a bit the day I got it put in and I had very light spotting the next day. But I haven't had any bleeding since then. I'm really glad I decided to get the mirena. It's a great option for someone who just wants it to be put in and be able to forget about it for 6 years"
"This was the worst decision of my life ! Don't ever get this thing implanted inside of you . The insertion process is tragic and I was laid out in the table for an hour of the dr trying to force it into my small cervix. I had horrible headaches, started to develop acne , and I almost had a stroke one night . My eye was twitching for 3 days then my face began to spasm and started to droop and I had to go to the ER and was place on steroids . I've lost some of  my hair in the front and back of my head . There is NO  way u can tell me that this device didn't cause this! I had this device in only for 4 weeks ! And I was at my breaking point when I started experiencing lower leg pain and numbness when I was in the grocery store.say NO!"
"I had the Mirena put in when I was 30 and no one warned me about the pain, so I just sucked it up and dealt with it. I've had mine in for 3yrs now with no problems. The first year I would say did suck with all of the random bleeding. Now I rarely cramp and the periods are very light so I can't really complain. Some positions during sex can be uncomfortable so I just adjust."
"I had the Mirena IUD placed 4 weeks ago. I had heard that the initial placement can be very painful, however, I only felt a very slight ache/pressure when my doc put it in. He even had to manually expand my cervix because it wouldn't open for him at all. But even with that, it wasn't bad. I did bleed quite a bit after insertion because he had to pry everything open basically lol. But really not a bad experience. I rated it at an 8 because I've been bleeding since about day 5 post insertion. It varies from light spotting to full blown period heaviness from day to day (cramps too) and hasn't stopped for 3 weeks. Its quite a mood killer :/ but I'd still choose this over the pill, honestly. The bleeding is the only downside for me."
"""-The Mirena IUD insertion was about an 8/10 on pain scale. After I left the procedure, I had zero pain that night and wasn't limited in any way. In the weeks following I had minor cramping. I had my period for about two straight months following insertion. 
-I had my mirena inserted in March, and it is now mid-July. I get my period at least once month, sometimes with heavy cramping on day 1.  
-My biggest word of caution is regarding weight gain. Post insertion I've had a lot of issues maintaining my weight and I am truly consistent with what I eat. I've gained 10 pounds w/o changing my diet. It is VERY hard to the lose weight. I'm now 3 mo.  Post insertion and my weight has suddenly levelled back out, with no changes to my diet. Super weird."""
"I decided to share my experience to add a positive review about the Mirena IUD. I had my IUD inserted about a week ago. Going in for the insertion I was terrified based on all the reviews I read online referring to the pain. An hour before my appointment I took 800mg of ibuprofen, my gyno didn't recommend anything else before the insertion. When the insertion started, I kept waiting for the worst pain of my life to come but it didn't. The pain was about 4/10, but I wouldn't even consider it pain, uncomfortable may be a better word (sharp cramping but bearable) My period is already much lighter than usual to the point that I'm only wearing panty liners (I never had very heavy periods previously and I've been on the pill for about 5 years)"
"Had it in for three hours and the headache and dizziness started. Luckily was able to get it removed within 24 hours, but the headache is still here five hours later. From what I've read, this is a terrible drug and I'm so glad I got it out of my body!!!!"
"""I put off getting the IUD for a few months because of all the reviews that I've read about them. Well I bit the bullet and got it because how am I supposed to know if I'll have all the problems that other ladies have had if I don't try it? 
Having it put in was easy, maybe 2 minutes. After though I did get sweaty, shaky and I did throw up a few times. I had a friend drive me as I had horrid cramps. I went home, took a Tylenol and slept it off! Day 2 was the odd cramp. I'm a week in and no cramps. still spotting here and there but that's normal
Don't be scared. Try it out and if it's not for you, you can have it removed. I made an appointment to talk to the obgyn about the IUD before I was even positive on getting it. Don't worry :)"""
"Yes it definitely worked as a birth control but completely changed my personality in the meantime. The 14 day periods, tender breasts and stabbing pains, I could have coped with until it settled; but the anger out of nowhere, falling out with family and my partner, irrational crying, feeling totally emotionally unbalanced and actually hating who I'd become were horrific. I'd be very careful when choosing this contraception and look out for these signs and get it removed asap."
"Had the copper coil for 10 years with no probs just my periods slightly heavier. Convinced by doctor to have mirena as it was so great ( even though I had no probs with the copper and no probs with heavy periods) I was sold. Anyways all was fine for the first week then exactly 1 week later ( and nothing else in my life changed) I started to get manic, anxious and felt like I was running away from danger all the time. I wanted to cry as I felt so out of control and powerless. My blood pressure went up and I have a leaky heart valve and this is not good. So cross I was fooled. My hormones do affect my mood. Some women like it I hate it with a passion!"
"My #1 prayer is that someone will read this BEFORE they put this poison in their body referred to as Mirena. I had the IUD put in after my Implanon was removed (btw, Implanon was incredible, for me. But my OB insisted I got Mirena). I had it in for about 5 years, yes my periods were light but sex sucked; it was painful during and after, I was never "in the mood". I gained about 50 pounds, grew depressed obviously. Usually athletic and excited to work out, I became super tired and lazy all of the time. It took a toll on my relationship, I don't even see why he stayed with me (but he's amazing ??)! About a month ago I got the IUD removed. It was a short, sweet procedure and I instantly felt better (just knowing it was out of me gave me so much satisfaction). I was on a light period when it was removed and it eventually ended as normal.... one month later I started my period again (normal). But I have been bleeding since, it's been about 3.5-4 weeks. And if I'm not "bleeding" I have brown discharge (looks like dried up blood). I feel crummy and I long for normalness! I felt as if I have taken 5 steps forward, getting it removed, just to take ten steps back! Don't do it! At this point I wouldn't advise bc at all but obviously people use it for other reasons besides getting pregnant. Nevertheless, the hormonal imbalance and emotional toll is not worth it! I pray after all of this I can even conceive another child. I don't know this for a fact: but I feel like there's got to be some kind of extra financial gain for OBs when they insert Mirena. Do what is best for you and don't be afraid to say no, or ask every question you need to... I wish I would've. Best wishes, ladies!"
"My Ob suggest Mirena only because it wouldn't make me gain weight.  It went in on Nov 2016 and the procedure was quick and not painful. I am 29 with two kids, c section both. I bled for almost 3 months. I kept calling the nurses and they kept telling to give it more time for my body to adjust. After 6 month I kept spotting randomly, finally 8 month into it decide to take it out, come to find out my uterus was inflamed and reject it and that why I was bleeding too much. I hope there is no permanent damage to my uterus."
"I used the Mirena as a contraception and as a way to control my uterine bleeding. Was an effective contraception however it did have intolerable side effects. On a positive note I was less mood swingy and weight loss. On the more negative side I felt gradually mildly depressed had a severely reduced energy.  Six weeks after I had the coil inserted I began to have upper back pain, muscle tension which got increasingly worse.  I was getting by by popping pain killers and attending physio, nothing helped. I finally realised I only ever had a bad back since the coil and muscle tension and bad back are listed as side effects, after 7 months I had it removed within 4 weeks my back pan had gone, I felt so relieved. Never again. I have my energy back as well."
"""I only have a review on the insertion and the 2 days after, It was so much better then I expected. Coming on here and reading all the reviews about how painful it is really made me over concerned. The insertion was a breeze I didn't feel much, I just had light cramping during the procedure. (I have had one baby 5 years ago so that might be why my pain was less then other women's) About 10 min - 2 hours after I have fairly painful cramps but nothing unlike my period. I have been spotting very lightly since. 
So far so good!"""
"I'm 22, have no children, and had my Mirena inserted about 3 months ago. I was first on Skyla for 3 years, then the second time around chose Mirena as it lasts longer and because of the current political climate. The insertion was very easy for me, however that may have been because I already had an IUD in the past. The insertion of my first IUD was terrible, VERY painful, but the benefits outweighed the few minutes of pain. Since having the Mirena IUD I've only had 1 period that lasted 1-2 days. I've never once had the slightest concern about being pregnant, and have experienced no side effects besides a few days of spotting after the insertion. Highly highly recommend."
"I'm 24 years old with 2 children. I wasn't 100% sold on getting a tubal being so young, but I'm sure I want one now. Mirena was NOT a good idea. I've gained 20 pounds in 6 months, and have acne so bad you'd think I never washed my face/neck. I have ZERO sex drive and I'm constantly tired. Not to mention a raging women. Not good for having a 6 month old and a toddler... I have an appointment to schedule a tubal, and I cannot wait to get this toxic hormone pumping piece of plastic out of my body. Let's hope I return to my normal self...."
"I am 26 years old and got the Mirena IUD 6 months ago. I do not have any children. Getting the IUD inserted was the most pain I have ever experienced, it felt like my uterus was getting electrocuted!! After getting it inserted, I had severe cramps that lasted for at least 3 months along with constant bleeding and/or spotting. These cramps were significantly more painful than my normal cramps. I had to take t3's and at times couldn't even move. Since then I have also gained 20 lbs and got acne on my chin/neck/chest. I have also got random skin rashes. I was really hoping this would work out for me, but I am thinking about getting it removed if nothing changes in the next few months - I don't feel like myself anymore."
"So I had a horrible experience, but it was because I was not given anything to soften my cervix the night before. Also I did not take any ibuprofen, but I was really uninformed about the procedure. I was 18 and never had a baby, so when she clamped my cervix it felt like a horrible cramp and a sharp pain. It wasn't too bad and definitely tolerable; however, my gyn could not get the Mirena into my cervix. So the clamping pain never stopped, for about 5 min she tried and I was becoming faint from the pain. We stopped, but since I know what the pain was like and how it should've only been 30 seconds of it. I am going back a year later next week, to get the Kyleena. Which is a smaller IUD, and I also will be getting something to soften cervix."
"""Had the Skyla placed at my 6wk postpartum check up. It was slightly uncomfortable but no different than when I had my Para guard placed 8yrs before. My Dr. recommended giving Skyla a try because I have a heart shaped uterus and had experienced problems with the Para guard. The skyla is a smaller IUD. Her belief was if I really wanted to try an IUD the smaller style of device could be the ticket due to the shape of my uterus. Yes I cramped a little that day, and off and on the next day. I spotted constantly for the first 3 months. 
I have noticed losing weight to be difficult but who knows if its the device or some other cause. 
I have noticed I am more irritable and I have decreased sex drive. Anyone else experience these problems?"""
"It was all going well until 6 months into it a sudden burst of laughter dislodged the Mirena and it eventually perforated the uterus and ended up on the outside. After 2 lots of ultrasounds it has to be removed by laparoscopic surgery. Not a good option if you live outside the city as many appointments to get it sorted plus the expense of it all."
"I just had Mirena inserted a few days ago. The insertion was not as painful as I had expected, mainly uncomfortable. I had it put in as a reliable contraceptive after my first baby was born. My OB told me numerous times that the mirena is recommended for women who have already had children. I have no complaints about it so far. There was some pretty bad cramping after it was first inserted for maybe 10 minutes. But that's kind of a given considering something is being placed into your cirvix hole.."
"""I am 27 and have never been on BC. No kids. I decided to try BC. I didn't want to try pills because I hate the ""trial and error"" part of it and I am terrified of acne or weight gain and also I'm just not responsible enough to take it daily. I read sooo many mixed reviews about Mirena but I figured, what the hell, let's try. I love that the hormones are IN your uterus and not in your blood stream so minimal effects on mood. Your mood swings are in your head. No appetite change, no more acne than usual.
INSERTION: I was soo scared of the pain I read about. I have a LOW tolerance. I took two Advil an hour before hand and my Doctor told me when the cramps were coming. You won't cry, you won't faint. 6/10 on cramp pain, lasted 5 mins. RECOMMEND!"""
"""All I can say about this is, I'm not pregnant. I got this terrible concoction put in less than 6 months ago. The insertion was excruciating. I cramped for days. My menstrual cramps are different, worse than ever. I never had periods before, Which was great. But now I get them monthly.
I want it out due to pain, mostly."""
"I got the Mirena on November 16th, 2017 and just got it removed today (June 8th, 2017).  The insertion was extremely painful. In November when I first got it I weighed in at 116 lbs at 5'3, after 6 months I weighed in today at 131.4 lbs. This was without a doubt a result of the Mirena. In addition, I experienced horrible cramps for 3 weeks every month, my digestion was off all of the time, worsening acne, water retention, increased appetite, extreme bloating, a rash/hives all over my chest, lowered sex drive, sex was very painful and would restart my period, the skin on my nipples started to peel and I could feel it poking inside of me 24/7. I hated it, I won't recommend this to anyone."
"I have had 2 mirenas in the past, one before my first child, one after, and have just had my 3rd inserted today, 6 weeks after my second child. It has worked very well for me, completely takes my period away after the first couple spotty months. I do not experience any significant side effects, and was happy to switch to this from being on the pill for 15 years. I have depression and it has not worsened my symptoms, and actually has improved my sex drive. The first one my husband couldn't feel at all, the second one poked him a few times depending on position but we both agreed the benefits far outweighed the negatives for both of us - no period, no moods swings, no cysts on my ovaries, better libido, all of which were a problem on the pill"
"Got Mirena October 2016 to reduce my typically heavy and painful periods. (Got tubes tied after baby number 2 so didn't need it for birth control.) Gained weight and got acne up my back and neck the next few months. My husband noticed I seemed more sad and lonely all the time. I got bladder infections every time I had my period until I started taking D-Mannose...and it had been years since I'd had one. Around the 6 month mark -- when they say your periods should level out -- I went from a period every 3 weeks to one every 7-10 days. After 8 weeks of this, I got Mirena removed. It has been 5 days. I'm still bleeding but my skin has cleared up already. My niece is looking into connections between her Mirena and MS-type symptoms she's developed"
"What a nightmare. Severe cramping for 6 months like I was in labour, daily bleeding for 12 months, fatigue, lactating breasts after 12 months and now pregnant. This is so garbage it should be removed from the market. It is disgusting it is legally being sold to unsuspecting victims."
"Mirena has been the best decision I have ever made. I was trying different birth control methods, depo 2 years, switched to pills realized I had a forgetful problem and a sensitivity to estrogen therefore I was led to long haul contraceptive. I had done progesterone only BC to stay child free in my young college life. So mirena seemed  good option. I got it inserted at 18 I'm now 21 and I'm still in absolute love with it, it's me myself and my Mirena. Insertion was so painful not gonna lie. My periods are very light just like tiny amounts that only show up on toilet paper. Sorry but best way to describe it. I experience PMS symptoms for like a week or 2 leading up to these like fake no uterine lining periods. So yes that's what to expect. Definitely go for it."
"""Recommend!! I initially had the 10 yr IUD (2001) it was awesome, I barely even knew it was there. 
After that I got the Merena and liked it as well. I think the key is to make sure your OBGYN knows what they are doing when its inserted."""
"I posted an initial review 2 weeks ago. Quick recap the insertion was not painful...1st week I had 3 very painful migraines as I was adjusting to the hormone change. Only Advil worked for me. Wasn't much of a surprise being that I have migraines (not as bad) on my period. 2nd & 3rd week NO MIGRAINES. Just a few random & akward muscle spasms that last a split second. Bleeding only light enough for a panty liner every other day (2 days total). My bf does not feel it. Most imp, I am worry free of getting pregnant. Don't let these reviews get to you, every woman is different."
"""Mirena has been a brilliant alternative to taking the pill for me. I had it inserted 4 months ago and have experienced no side effects or problems since. I love the fact that you don't even need to think about it. I am a 26 year old with no previous children, I say this as it is often recommended for people who have already had kids. I am married and I plan to stay on it for about three years. 
The insertion process was a lot like having a Pap smear. It did not take very long however it was very painful (9/10) for about a minute. Afterwards I experienced a lot of cramping and discomfort for the rest of the day. I feel like although it was an unpleasant experience in the long term it is totally worth it. I never had major problems with the pill either however I did experience mood swings and a low libido. I also didn't like the fact that I had to remember to take it daily and I would often fail to take it at a consistent time.
Since being on Mirena I have rarely gotten my period, (it has been nice not to think about tampons!) I did occasionally have some very light spotting in the first two months. I have been meaning to write this review for a while as I have been very pleased with my experience. I highly recommend it to others my age, it is a sensible, convenient option and I have been a much happier person ever since."""
"I had Mirena inserted 3.5 months ago. Your healthcare provider will inform you that the first 3-6 months after insertion can be rough, but I want to warn everyone who is considering getting Mirena that this is NOT a joke. If you enjoy bleeding for 2-3 weeks out of every month, then Mirena is the birth control for you. Since the insertion, I have not had more than one consecutive week without any kind of spotting or bleeding. I also want to add that Mirena was recommended to me because of severe cramps that the Pill did not alleviate, but my cramps with Mirena are worse. I sometimes get dizzy/lightheaded from them as well. Apparently this is all considered "normal" in the first 6 months and I am nearing my breaking point."
"I see a lot of reviews about the initial placement being painful, but I honestly did not a feel a thing! My doc talked me through it, counted 3 potential cramps. But I didn't feel any until immediately after & it felt no worse than period cramps. They lasted for about an hour. Then had a migraine for the rest of the day. Bled lightly. Day 2 & I have no complaints. Bleeding even ceased. I'm gonna do my best to push through any side effects, better than being pregnant again! Will post updates."
"I've had it 5 months now, and I am getting it out next week. I've had some CRAZY side effects on this thing, the doctor swears it's local hormone release so Mirena can't be the problem, but its the only thing that's changed in my life. Insertion sucked but it wasn't unbearable, I had severe cramping after insertion. Since I've been on it I've had a decrease/change in libido, continual spotting, almost constant cramping, headaches every day, mood swings, increased levels of depression, a ridiculous flare up in acne, lower back pain, and achy/dry eyes (I wear contact lenses and I've never had this problem until the IUD). Doctor did not discuss any potential side effects with me before inserting."
"My experience has been horrible I've had it in for 5 months and haven't stopped? bleeding I wouldn't recommend anyone to ever get the mirena and the cramps hurt so bad in my stomach and in my back"
"First one worked fine, no periods and no pregnancys! 2nd one fitted!!! OMG I felt like I was losing it! I eventually worked out that my anxiety was linked to it! Had it taken out and ended up having 12 months of counselling. Always been a bit of a worrier but the mirena sent it to a whole new level!! Never again. I now know of 2 other people who experienced similar issues."
"I had a horrific experience with the mirena. The insertion was the worst pain I've ever felt in my life. It was absolutely horrific. I was covered in sweat and I almost lost consciousness from the pain. The following 2 days, I took 3 ibuprofen every 6 hours and I was still in so much pain that I could hardly bear to eat. I knew I needed a stronger pain med but had no confidence I could drive myself to the doctor's office.  3 months later, I had my first panic attack completely unprovoked. I've had anxiety since then, and horrific, severe acne unlike anything I've ever had. Removal was just as painful. The strings were cut too short so I need to get it surgically removed under general anesthesia next week. I can't wait. I've had it for 5 mo"
"I was 45 when I had the mirena coil inserted. I'd never had children so it was painful but bearable. Everyone is different so just make sure you talk any concerns through with your GP. I had a very light period for first three months and occasional cramping but no worse than before I had the mirena inserted, after that I've had 4 and a half years period/cramp free. No side effects whatsoever. My 5 years are up so I'm due to have it removed. Have been told I'll experience the same level of discomfort in the removal so at least I know what to expect and it literally does only take a few minutes."
"I had mirena for about 2 years before I decided enough was enough. I was bleeding for the first 2 weeks straight, but after that I never had any bleeding at all. It wasn't until after 6 months that I had severe  acne, anxiety/depression, and had gained 20lbs when I had not changed my exercise routine or eating habits. I'm an Aesthetician and none of my remedies and practices could get rid of my acne. I had zero history of anxiety or depression. It became so bad I started to disconnect completely with my circle of friends. When I removed it, my doctor immediately put me on the pill again and Doctor was very annoyed that  I had it removed. I immediately started to feel like myself again as soon as she pulled the strings out! Avoid this IUD."
"Hi there, I wanted to post a comment regarding this IUD due to the horror stories I have heard. First off, I gave birth 3 months ago to my first child and would love to have more someday but at the moment my husband and I are enjoying the 3 of us. I felt this form of birth control was ideal and worth while For our situation, however, I was not looking forward to the placement! Honestly, it was a bit uncomfortable, definitely the first 5 minutes or so after, 800 mg of ibuprofen and there is no more pain or acheyness... it wasn't that bad, no bleeding, cramping subsided 3 hrs later. All is good... so, fear not, it's not that bad- you can do it!"
"""I was excited to get it, but the insertion was very, VERY painful, even with local anesthesia.  I bled for a long time and it was very uncomfortable to sit in certain positions.  My periods were very different, with prolonged bleeding (not the short, sweet periods the advertisements promise).
I also noticed that I had started to smell badly down there.  I kept going to the doctor for it (the other doctor who cared for IUD patients, not MY doctor) and he kept telling me that it was a ""bacterial imbalance"" and not related to my IUD.  It most certainly was because my cervix was always open from the string.  This ceased after removal.
Also, it does not prevent conception.  It causes fertilized eggs to be discharged because they can't implant."""
"I had the mirena in for a little over 5 years. I spotted every now and then the first couple months but my doctor prescribed me estrogen to take for about a week to stop the bleeding. After that I was ok. I've never had problems with depression untIl about two years ago. I was low in energy, didn't want to do much and I gained 25lbs in the last year. My hair also started coming out. At first I thought the depression, hair loss, and weight gain was just me but after reading other comments I see that it wasn't. I just got mine removed today and it's such a relief. I'm going to give my body a rest to normalize itself  before I opt for the pill which is what I had my doctor prescribe me."
"I got the mirena placed in March 2014 6 weeks after my second child. Insertion was easy ( I had just had a baby) I spotted for about a month off and on but after that I would have light spotting for a day so light a pad or tampon would have been no use. Bled only about 3 or 4 times a year. Mirena was incredibly effective, loved the light/less periods I would almost say non existent BUT the mirena hated me. Horrible chin acne, constant bloating, couldn't lose weight at all and developed anxiety and depression to the point I hated myself. I had it removed yesterday and they couldn't find the strings, had to get an ultrasound and the IUD was at the fundus of my uterus so they had to shove a hook instrument through my cervix to top of my uterus"
"Got the mirena a few months ago and so happy I did. I can't take birth control pills due to my medication, so my doctor said to get this. I had some cramps and spotted for almost 2 weeks and was nervous, but reading other people's sounded normal because your body isn't use to it yet. After that it's been good, no pain and really small periods. I know sometimes the symptoms can really suck but I'd rather those then be pregnant so I recommend to all."
"I got Mirena inserted 2.5 years ago. The insertion was slightly painful but I'm good with pain. It wasn't till I left my doctors that I felt sharp cramps, which only lasted a day. At first I loved Mirena. I honestly can't take anyone's experience with Mirena less than a year seriously. That's because the first year of me having it I too thought it was amazing. No having to worry about the pill everyday, no bleeding, no pregnancy ! It was amazing, until about 9 months in. I started to get severe hormonal chin acne, mood swings, hair loss and dryness. I got my first BV infections, and the worst yeast infections. My sex drive is non existing anymore so that birth control within it own! Biggest factor was how crazy it's made me."
"""I'm almost 23
I've had one child he was born at 27 weeks almost two years ago
I got the IUD put in on the last day of my period (3 day periods) so I spotted for the next 4 days after that I spotted every other day one time a day for 6 days and now I've had it in for 16 days and no spotting. So I had 10 days of spotting (on and off) and so far I love it :)"""
"The Mirena works great for most people. I am not one of them. My hair came out in clumps in the shower. I had the Mirena for 2 years and gained 15lbs. I've never had an issue with weight and always have had a very fast metabolism. I figured my metabolism was slowing down (Mid-twenties), and that I would need to eat better and exercise. I got my Mirena removed exactly one week ago and have lost 6lbs and have changed absolutely nothing! All the weight I gained with Mirena seemed to go to my stomach. I looked 3-4 months pregnant everyday. My depression got worse. I was so out of energy everyday. I was itching my skin off everyday - pretty sure I had a combo of hives and eczema. Feeling better, skin's clearing and weight's down."
"Hi, I need some advice. I'm 20 years old and I've never been pregnant, I had the mirena coil fitted about 3 weeks ago, the procedure didn't go so well and the doctor had to dilate my cervix as she wasn't able to place the coil. It's been 3 weeks now and me and my partner are starting to have sex again but I'm feeling slight discomfort and a little pain, has anyone else felt this and if so is it normal?"
"""I had very little issue with insertion and mild cramps after.
NOTE: BREATHE!!! Can't stress enough. Thankfully I have an excellent doctor who coached me thru. I had taken ibuprofen before, and took the cervix softener (whatever it's called) about 8 hours prior. She also numbed with lidocaine. Very helpful so ask for it!
When breathing ask for the doc to tell u when insertion is happening. Take deep breath right before and out. That way the cervix will open to allow for easy insertion. Otherwise it's more so forced and the after pain is greater. 
There's a connection between our jaws and cervix. So don't hold your breath or bite down but breath thru so less pain.
Barely any cramps the following days."""
"Mirena was highly recommended to me by my doctor. I asked a few friends of mine who were already on mirena and they had nothing but positive reviews of it. I have had heavy painful periods ever since puberty and I was horrible at taking the pills. I eventually went off the pill because it was effecting my hormone level way too much and did nothing to ease my pain or heaviness of my period. Regardless of taking ibuprofen before having the IUD inserted as well as taking a prescribed misoprostol to relax my cervix, the pain was unbearable, I have an extremely good pain tolerance, but  I ended up fainting afterwards in my doctors office. The pain that night was so bad even T3's didn't help. Otherwise I have had no spotting or bleeding."
"""Meh, I like it for the sheer convenience factor. In 1 year, I've gained 60lbs with and w/o dieting. I, in my late 30s, have reentered puberty (maybe menopause) with the new found acne and mood swings. Cramps are here and there, severe as they may be, they're not the worst side effect. I'm very arthritic now, some joints are crippling to try and use. Hot flashes suck, although I saved a fortune on heating this winter. Acid reflux was increased. My hair is super brittle and dry now.
Now for the plus side. I DO NOT bleed anymore :) I may decide to suffer through on that alone. It has helped my depression and anxiety, so much that I have been able to almost wean off the antidepressants.
I love the shelf life of five years too."""
"For me, Mirena has been the perfect birth control option. I take a number of other medications, so a pill might have interacted with them. I gave Mirena a shot and could not be happier! You don't have to think about anything! Insertion is painful, but worth it. Give it a try! If you're not happy, your doctor can certainly take it out!"
"I first started researching the Mirena when my Dr suggested it so me because I sucked at taking the pill everyday, had terribly painful and heavy periods, and I had no sexual desire at all. After reading everything online I was very nervous about the insertion and I almost backed out last minute. Getting it in was very, very painful for me. The cramps were next to unbearable. I missed the next day of school and work because I was in so much pain. After about the 4th day, the pain and cramps finally started to subside. I bled for about 3 months after. Nothing that a simple panty liner didn't take care of. It was always just light spotting. I am so glad I kept it because it is almost a year later and I love it. I would recommend to anyone."
"I was nervous to get Mirena after reading reviews, but my doc strongly encouraged for medical reasons. About 3.5 months ago I got the IUD inserted. While I survived, I'm still haunted by how painful it was. There was a slight complication (apparently my uterus was tilted so the 1st attempt at insertion failed & she had to give me a numbing shot IN THE VAG & adjust my uterus) the 2nd attempt succeeded but the cramps were so intense. Cramps lasted 2 days & I bled for 2 weeks straight. After that my period came normal but lasted a couple days extra. My last period was slightly lighter than usual so I'm hoping it drops off soon. So far it's been worth the pain bc periods are more bearable, it's super effective & nice to not worry about a pill"
"Bad side effects! I'm 20 years old and have not had kids and got the mirena due to heavy periods, this was 2 years ago now. Getting it inserted was so painful I was traumatised by the experience. However I have not had a period or spotting in 2 years. Downfall I developed acne, depression, anxiety and horrible mood swings. More recently I got BV (bacterial vaginosis) (horrible smell down there) antibiotics as well as creams are not getting rid of this reoccurring for 4 months and now after some serious thinking I'll be getting the IUD removed as the side effects are not worth it anymore! I can't wait to get it out and start feeling like myself again. I hope the removal doesn't hurt as bad! Do your research."
"Other than being effective in preventing pregnancy, the side effects I experienced with the Mirena were not enjoyable. I really liked the idea that it was a local hormone as opposed to a systemic hormone (only puts the hormones into your reproductive organs instead of throughout the entire body which is what the pill did), and the convenience of not having to take a pill every day was the biggest positive! However, due to the hormones being local, I noticed the positive benefits I experience with the pill such as not getting acne, came back. My skin got really bad. Also, I ended up getting my period more frequently, for longer periods, as well as had spotting in between periods for the entire 2 years of having my IUD I got it removed."
"I had the mirena  inserted 4 days ago now, I decided to get the mirena as I have very very painful period cramps and I had recently moved to a new area and getting the pill was a nightmare. The insertion for me was very very painful, the doctor had to dilate my cervix so it made the cramping even worse, the pain was so bad that I was actually sick. However I'm still experiencing bad cramping days later. I won't say at the moment if I hate it or not as it's been only a couple of days but i hope the cramping stops soon!"
"This has been an amazing contraceptive. My girlfriend is really happy with the results and I find it to be very effective."
"""I got the mirena inserted yesterday. I should have done the research before because after reading so many reviews, I may have passed and stayed on the pill.  The only reason I decided upon the IUD is because I trust my Dr. I have 2 children and still nursing my 11 month old. I am using this form of bc to prevent a 3rd pregnancy, at least until we are ready to make the decision. Being on the pill, it was too hard for me to remember to take it everyday. The only positive I can share is the actual use as a birth control.  The insertion was very painful. I wish I would have known about the possibility of anesthesia. The two Motrin 800's I took prior did nothing for me.
Day two and I am experiencing awful cramping.  No bleeding but pain."""
"I'm 24, I don't have kids and I've never been pregnant.  I've been with my boyfriend for 8 years, and kids just are not in our near future.  I have been on the pill since I was 14 and just recently we wanted to try something long term.  I got the Mirena put in 2 days ago.  I was nervous and so scared because of all the bad reviews I read about it before I went to have it put in.  While getting the Mirena put in there were 3 cramps, each cramp were worse than the other but none were unbearable.  Once the Mirena was put in, they did an ultra sound to be sure that it was in place and my doctor said everything looked great.  I went back to work after I got it put in, I was tired and a little uncomfortable for the rest of the day.  Then all good"
"I have had my 2nd Mirena IUD removed NOT to get it again. I have had the Mirena for 10 yrs. The moods swings were horrible, hair loss, I was tired all the time with anxiety, depression, weight gain (125lbs) that I could not shed with the IUD, no sexual desire, vaginal dryness, yeast infections. You name it I had it. My doctor at the time would just tell me it was depression ( I was going thru a lot so I fell into "this is my life now" and went with what my doctor told me). We moved I was tired of being tired. I went to see another doctor and had my IUD removed. I didn't need it my husband had a vasectomy 6yrs ago...I just loved having no periods. It was not worth all the other medical problems it brought. LADIES PLEASE do your research!"
"It caused me so much pain from the day it got put in. I had the normal symptoms that were to be expected. My body was trying to expel the IUD. It caused me to go to hospital a lot. I have PCOS because of this brand now. Never get this brand."
"So I've had the Marina for 6 years and I'm 24. I used to have heavy bleeding and tried absolutely everything the rod, injections the pill you name it I have tried it.... this is the best thing I have ever had I was under when I first got it out in. A year ago I got it done again I have never had kids and yes it was a bit painful but nothing that I couldn't handle! Honestly couldn't give this a better wrap hardly any bleeding maybe every couple months I spot for a day or two no acne, weight gain or cramps. I feel a lot of women need to figure this out for themselves as every body is different and yes you may get side effects but the first 6 months it's getting used to your body so you just need to give it time to adjust to you."
"I chose to get the Mirena to help with the symptoms of my period and naturally having 5-7 years of birth control was also attractive. I found the pain of insertion was not unlike some of the cramping I usually experience during my period, except it was one big one versus twenty minutes of painful contractions. Following the procedure, I had very mild cramping. I have had some mild spotting, but nothing a panty liner can't handle. I am now on my period and my flow has already seemed to have lightened and my cramping is less severe. I am not currently sexually active, so I can't say much about effectiveness as birth control, but stats say over 99% effective, and condoms can only get it closer to 100%. Very pleased so far."
"I'm 20 years old and I've been on various forms of birth control since I was 16 due to horrible cramps, among other things. I could never find one that worked quite right with minimal side effects. I was nervous about an IUD at first, but 8 months later and I absolutely love it. I haven't had a period in 5 months, and have had none of the typical negative effects that I got from the pill. I would recommend this to anyone, and the insertion procedure is nowhere near as bad as the reviews say!"
"""I got the mirena fitted on the 13th Feb, having it fitted wasn't to bad, just felt a little uncomfortable. But after, it was fitted I did experience the worse cramps ever, it was so painful - I've never had children so I don't know if it was because of that. 
I bled consecutively for 4 weeks, heavy bleeding for 1 then really light, spotting for 3. However I didn't have a single cramp.
Soon after that, I've had no bleeding, no pains. No periods since so it seems to be doing the job, I think you've just got to persevere with it and let it get use to your body before you start criticising it. However it doesn't work for everyone :)"""
"I got the mirena after giving birth about 7 weeks post partum. I bleed terribly almost every day.  Terrible back pains and no energy. Sex went out the window. My doc said to give it three months to regulate but this sucks. I'm bloated all the time and can't loose any weight. So far I'm thinking its not worth it. Obviously, its doing its job but this is not fun and its ruining my sex life !!  Also been getting headaches that won't go away."
"I've had the Mirena almost 5 years now. I no longer have periods. This saves me a week of pain a month. Also if you have endometriosis it helps stop the growth. I highly recommend."
"I'm 23 no children. It didn't really hurt that much going it. A few hours later I had bad cramps which were painful. My periods stopped only little spotting which was brill as I had heavy periods before. This is brilliant. But it's the cramps. They only last 2 mins but they are so intense and its nearly had me crying. But then I haven't had no cramps for 2 weeks but now I've got them again. If it lasted longer I would of had it out by now cause the pain is unreal. I am happy about no periods  hopefully it will settle. I'll give it another few months and if I still have these cramps it's coming out."
"I'm on my second placement of mirena, due to be changed out in Nov. 2017. I had it inserted after the birth of my third child so insertion wasn't to bad. I never had severe cramping or heavy bleeding during my period and after insertion I stopped getting periods. The second insertion has been very similar, however the past year and a half I've dealt with weight game, migraines, mild lower abdominal pains and change in mood. I'm thinking it's my body changing with age, will be 30 in September, so it's affecting me differently. I've also had random spotting but usually only when I wipe and only for a max of one day. I've been very happy with this birth control. I will more than likely have a third implant due to not wanting any more babies."
"I have had my mirena since Tuesday (4 days).  I have never had kids.  I was not on my cycle.  I have horrible periods so my doctor recommended this. In my mind I was thinking this is going to be horrible as I had other exams that had me in horrendous pain.  Insertion took about 2 minutes. Only pain I felt was when he was measuring the uterus.  Felt like cramps.  I  did not even feel it going in.  The Dr said ok that's it. I had no idea it was over.  Afterwards I went to lunch.  Little cramps after I got home,  through the night and the next day.  Just took tylenol.  Only spotted the day that I got it.  So far so good."
"So far so good! Had it put in today under anaesthetic. No pain, no cramping and no bleeding. Fingers crossed my perfect experience continues. Will keep you all posted."
"I wish I never got this. 3 months after insertion I began to get extreme abdominal pain once a month due to new ovarian cysts. Now, 8 months after starting and 1 month after removal, I might need surgery due to an 8cm cyst on my ovaries. Doesn't mean that it'll happen to you but be aware that the risk is there! I thought it would never happen and that it was unlikely but here I am today."
"""I had to stop the combined pill (Yasmin) after 3 years as I had started getting migraines. 
I am lucky my mother works at a family planning clinic so if I have any questions I just ask her. I chose the Mirena coil as the copper coil has a high chance of heavy periods and cramp (which I already suffered from).
My periods seemed to last slight longer, but after around six months they have get become very very light. During the 6 months I had bad cramps when due on my period which last days, but now have really settled.
My acne came back from pre-combined pill, but I manage this with antibiotics
I have had no weight gain, but I do have a healthy lifestyle.
Everyone is different, but I am glad that I perservered with the mirena."""
"""So I had mine put in about a week ago and I had it put in right before I got my other birth control taken out.. the one that looks like a match stick in your arm ( can't spell it right now) and omg did it hurt.. My sister had it and told me it wouldn't hurt but she didn't tell me that it was a lot worse to insert if you haven't had kids
 - which I haven't.. but it was bearable. We got some ibuprofen and I was fine.  I even went shopping after.  I still feel like I've got cramps and my back hurts a little more then usual but other then that it's been going pretty great. All though my nipples hurt but I'm not sure what's going on with that....."""
"I got the Mirena placed a month ago while I was under general anesthesia for an endometrial polyp removal.  So, I can't review anything on the pain of insertion because I was peacefully sleeping:) I was told to expect bleeding after my procedure, and that I may have prolonged bleeding/spotting due to the Mirena. I had light period like bleeding for a week followed by two days of spotting. I have not had a single thing since the.  I was due for my period last week, and it didn't show up. (Took a test to make sure there's not a bun in the oven.) I was a little worried about how my body would react to the Mirena after reading so many horror stories about it. But for me it has been great!!  No period, no weight gain, and no acne."
"I've had the the Mirena since 2008, second insert now and it works fine for me. Insertion the first time was a bit uncomfortable, but removing it was mildly painful. I spotted for about two days with very little cramping. Some months I spot for a day and some months not at all. I will have it again in 2018. No problems for me."
"It's been a month now and I'm still spotting so don't be surprised ladies. That part is the worst, other than that no issues. It does make intimacy issues due to the spotting. No significant acne changes or weight gain. Spotting and cramps seemed to have decreased so I'm waiting for the day it stops altogether. So far really enjoying it and knowing I'm protected."
"I have 5 children I am 27 I got the Mirena inserted after my last child like a year ago. Having it inserted was okay. 1 year of having it. This is my review I lost a lot of hair. I am now very non social, not happy, not amazed or amused by anything. I have been with my husband for 4 years and I wasn't this way until I got this IUD I hate it i feel alone at times and very depressed. I had to get it because they would not tie my tubes. I don't recommend this at ALL. I hate it so much. I was happy and enjoy life and loved seeing new thing and just being apart of  something. Now I don't want to do anything and I'm not happy with anything and its been every since I got this IUD. I hope this helps some one."
"Chose the Mirena after heavy menstrual bleeding from Paragard. I loved my Paragard and mainly had it removed because it was ten years old. A couple days after insertion of mirena panic attacks began, also dizziness, nausea, loss of appetite. I had sharp, stabbing pains in my pelvic/abdomen, head, and chest. Upon removal symptoms resolved. Insertion was easy with cervical softening meds. Mild cramping and some spotting after. Wish it hadn't made me feel so sick!"
"I had the Mirena inserted in 2011.I loved it! I stop having my period almost immediately.  No cramps! I just got it replace. Pain is tolerable  . I took Ibuprofen an hour before. It helped tremendously.  I'm slightly bleeding. But not like a period! Just spots."
"I am a little over two months now from insertion.  Never had children, 45 years old and insertion was almost unbearable for me.  However, after about 10-15 minutes after the insertion, I felt perfectly fine and went shopping!  I had almost no spotting the first month and then had a much lighter than normal period with almost no cramping.  I use to have very heavy periods with a lot of cramping.  The past month I have had no real period and no cramping, but I am spotting pretty much every day.  It does vary from bright red blood, to some days the brown blood.  Not really enjoying it, however I did read beforehand that this was pretty normal for the first few months.  Other than that, no side effects.  Still happy with my decision to do it."
"""I'm in my mid 30s and love to travel. The reason I wanted Mirena is so that I wouldn't accidentally become pregnant before any of my scheduled vacations! 
I don't have children so I was extremely nervous about the pain I would experience. I had the Mirena inserted just yesterday. I will tell you the pressure I felt was ""different"" and felt like a much more intense pap. I immediately began to feel cramping but took a Motrin 800. Felt great after that. Now, at 3:45 am, I am experiencing more cramping. I think it's time for another Motrin. 
I hated taking a pill every day, was afraid of weight gain with the depo shot, and was scared away from the implanon by my former ob/gyn. I read 1st 6 months are hell, looking forward to month 7!"""
"""Literally have never been in so much pain in my life. After what felt like 20 minutes (it was probably two) she asked me to calm down...right then and there I said stop. Nope. I absolutely can not calm down if another thing is inserted onto or into my cervix.
Did not successfully insert. 
I'm definitely just getting my tubes tied, hormones are super awful anyways.
PS I have a high pain tolerance, this was a super anomaly for me."""
"Had this now for a week. Every time I try and sleep I get bad cramps. I think lying down is affecting it because during the day it's fine. I have had a few hot flushes and been feeling really dizzy. My periods use to be really heavy and now I'm just spotting which is brill.. I've also gone off food. Still scared to have sex incase it disturbs it."
"""My first Mirena was agony to get in, 6 months of spotting then wonderful after that. No period, a day of spotting every 6 months or so, no cramping, no horrible side effects. PMT practically nonexistent.
Second mirena went in a few days ago, easy couple of minutes with a bit of cramping. Been spotting ever since though which I hope won't last, also feeling very moody and  ""PMT-ish""."""
"""I got the IUD Mirena is almost two months. I experience cramps for a week, I been spotting almost every day it seems it doesn't want to stop some days is heavy and other days is lighter.
 My sex drive has stop. My orgasm is not happening like before. My husband feels the strings during intercourse. I don't recommend it. I want  it out but  I guess it is how contraceptive works your protected from getting pregnant but it doesn't help your sex life."""
"I have had the Mirena for about a month. The insertion was easy and it took my very experienced ob about 5 minutes.  It honestly felt like a pap smear.  I also have 3 kids and a retroverted uterus for what it's worth. Unfortunately, I have had spotting every day since. I hope it stops soon because I have no other side effects. No weight gain, acne, etc and my sex drive has actually increased (weird right?). So if you are considering having a Mirena inserted my advice is to try it and see how it works with YOUR body. Yes, you can read the horror stories on this site and others. People are much more inclined to share a negative experience than a positive one. Talk to your doctor and look at actual peer reviewed studies."
"I was not looking forward to having this after reading all the reviews in here. I asked for the numbing gel as I was that scared of it hurting. It didn't hurt putting it in the scope thing to open your vagina hurt me more. I've had it now 2 hours I am bleeding but was bleeding before I had it in. I've taken painkillers just in case it starts to hurt but can't feel any pain at the moment. I have really bad painful periods and was fed up of having the depo jab. Fingers crossed this will work but don't believe everything you read on here because it didn't hurt as much as people said on here it would. I spoke to 4 nurses when I had this inserted and all of them had the mirena and highly recommended it. Hope this works."
"""I got my mirena on February 9th.
I gave it a 9 because I've only had it for 2 weeks but I have had little to no issue
Getting it was like a really bad cramp, I did get dizzy. But it went away shortly after.
My doctor said I had to be on my period and I was on day 2 of my cycle and it actually stopped it, only spotted for 2 days afterwards. Hormonal problems tend to ruin in my family as well has severe PMS. This actually helped me. I also have suffered from anxiety and my anxiety decreased significantly, my husband actually noticed this before me. I feel normal for once. Which makes me extremely happy :)"""
"I've been on the mirena this time for about a month now and have been having brownish discharge no cramps or periods just brownish discharge everyday. Has anyone else experienced this? Other than the brownish discharge this is the best birth control and I would recommend it to anyone."
"I had my Mirena inserted last week. An hour before the procedure, I took 800 mg of Ibuprofen and experienced just a little pressure during the insertion. I have had two kids though, so that may have helped as well. I bled a little the first day and had mild cramping. Since then, I've had some spotting, but no other side effects. My partner says he can't feel it, which I know is a concern for those considering it. I typically suffer from hormonal cystic acne, so I will be curious to see if I see any improvement with my skin while on Mirena. I'm very happy so far with it!"
"Oh man. I had this for a little over a year and it was awful, I had terrible cramps all the time and it made me bleed/hurt every single time I had sex. 0 sex drive. I really wish it had worked for me cause its just so much more convenient than an oral contraceptive but this is not for everyone."
"I've had Mirena for exactly 6 days and I'm still experiencing minor cramping. The spotting only lasted for a day and a half. I've gotten used to the cramping but if it gets too annoying I just pop a Motrin. The process itself was extremely painful because I'd never experienced cramps before hand. I'd say the part that was painful though was the dilation of my cervix. The second day was much better. I didn't have a sex drive for the first 3 days but on the 4th day I was ready to go. My face is clearer than ever. No regrets. Results may vary guys. Make your GYN your bestie just to stay on top of things. Good luck!"
"I have had Mirena for about 3 years now and the only good thing about it is that it's pretty much 100% effective and I don't have periods anymore.  BUT sex is sometimes extremely painful, my boyfriend can sometimes feel the strings poking him and it's uncomfortable to him.  I cramp on and off all the time.  I feel that I have become moodier and I have developed a bad attitude because of this IUD, but I could be wrong.  I had Mirena put in when I was 16, told my mom it was to help my irregular periods but truthfully I wanted it for birth control.  The procedure was one of the most painful things I had ever experienced in my entire life.  I bled for four months straight afterward.  I am considering having it removed soon."
"I just had my first baby in November. I knew I wanted to wait at least 3 years for the next. I was on the patch before and loved it but I didn't like having to remember to switch it. My Dr recommended Mirena. 10 weeks after my son was born I had it put in. I actually didn't feel anything. Didn't hurt and no cramping. I have had it in for about a month now. I have spotting on and off but not a big deal. No cramping. No weight gain. Sex drive unaffected. I love not having to worry about it. For those complaining about insertion if you haven't had a kid try Skyla instead. It's smaller and you should have less insertion pain. For those who just had a kid get it in as soon as you can while your cervix is still "loose" don't wait."
"""I have had my mirena for 15 mo - I got it at my one month appt after having my daughter. Worst decision I ever made. I have had cramps since, including back cramps every day that feel like I am in early labor all
Over again. Zero sex drive. Terrible acne and I am in my mid 30s- every time I try to have sex or other stimulation I start bleeding and cramping. My Dr wouldn't take it out. I hate it more than anything else And wish I never got one."""
"This is only related to the insertion, it was easy and I felt absolutely nothing. It felt like a Pap smear honest to god truth."
"""This is the worst thing. Have had nothing but horrible pain since getting it 12 months ago . Have had it removed today after being hospitalised for excruciating pain. They could not find any reason as to why and I have always thought it was this horrible device. A medical
Professional also told me hers was removed due to issues and she had met many others who have suffered. Do not do it !"""
"I love my IUD for many reasons. A lot of these reviews are just based off of the initial side effects and insertion. While I admit it was mildly painful for the first 24 hours and the spotting lasted 1-2 months, I am now 3 years in, and couldn't be happier. My period is 95% lighter and lasts only an hour, I never get cramps anymore, and I am comforted by the fact that it is so reliable! No weight gain or mood changes and my skin is still clear. Some people say these cause infertility but that is not true. IUDs have undergone many many clinical studies which show that is not the case! Don't let people on here scare you :) If you want the facts, go to a credible source. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0010782485900484"
"wow the side effects! I have never experienced acne like this before....I seriously break out all the time and I'm 31 years old I wanted the 5 year plan but I'm breaking out like I remember 7th grade"
"""I've had he Mirena for about a month now. I still have the spotting nearly everyday but it's not terrible. It's annoying im hoping that stops soon. 
Insertion was painful but I've had two kids so it really felt like a moderate labor contraction. It wasn't unbearable. 
I'm glad I did it! But my partner did say he could feel it during sex which I was a little disappointed to hear. Overall though, so far I'm happy with it!! I had two babies with the Nuva ring so I'm hoping this is 100% more effective """
"I just got the Mirena put in today and I have a low threshold for pain with certain things. I would advise everyone to take a good pain pill bc the pressure and cramping is pretty heavy. It's temporary but its painful...I kept tensing up and the Dr had to pause until I was ready lol...I hope all goes well but I will report back with results."
"I got it inserted on 10/12/14. The pain of having it inserted was horrible. The reason I went the Mirena route was because I used to take the pill and then the NuvaRing ( I either got sick or gained 45lbs), after I didn't use anything at all. I got very serious with my, now, fiancé and decided that this would be a good option for BC.  I got an appt with my OBGYN and discussed it.  She spoke highly of it. Initially I had little pain... fast forward 1.5 years and I have almost every side effect out there. weight gain, depression, back pain, abdominal pain, skin issues, tired, bloating, mood swings etc. I just don't feel like myself anymore. I am getting it removed 2/17/17. I am DONE! LADIES... DONT DO IT! Hopefully I am able to have children....."
"I got this IUD two days ago and I feel the need to post a review after reading all of the negative ones. Insertion isn't as painful as what I read. It does hurt, I jumped a little, but the whole procedure took less than 2 minutes. What was more annoying was cramping the rest of the day and the next day. After my appointment I had the rest of the day off of work. Your heating pad is your bff. I could have used another day off work but on the second day I went to work with a Thermacare pad on under my shirt. That helped a lot. I have a desk job so I was really aware of all of the cramping. If I had a job where I had to move around a lot I don't think I would have noticed the cramping. I would do it all over again, don't be afraid of the pain!"
"I had my mirena in about a week ago and I love it!!! So many negative things about the mirena, but everyone is different! It was uncomfortable getting it inserted but not unbearable! My doctor  was amazing! I didn't bleed at all... no cramps... or any other bad side affects!!! Everyone takes time to "warn" people of the bad side affects but many fail to acknowledge the positives! I would truly recommend this to any other female that has had a baby!!! I suffer from migraines so I couldn't take the pill, this was the next alternative and boy am I glad this was it!!!!"
"I've only had it a week, so what I can say is that the insertion was pretty painless for me personally. I'm 22, have never had kids, and I was not on my period at the moment of insertion. The process itself took about 5 min, and then I was ready to go. I spotted throughout the day, but had no cramps. In fact, I was out riding my bicycle through town in the next few hours or so."
"I only had the iud put in yesterday so my review is only regarding insertion because I seem to have had a very different experience than other women here. I may have a low pain threshold but my word it was absolutely horrendous. I was given heavy ibuprofen about 10 mins before and was in a jolly mood, excited to finally get this and dump the pill, but found the entire process painful. My doctor was incredible and so were the nurses but I reacted like a mad woman, screaming and crying like I never have before really. When I apologized to the dr for my actions she said I wasn't even on the list of the 'screamers' she had seen that day. So just a warning- this is NOT a 'bearable' experience for everyone. Still glad I did it."
"Just got it put in today. I am 19 and  never had a baby so it was rough getting past my cervix. Honestly the most painful experience. Really don't recommend. We will see in the next few days as to if this was a good choice for me."
"I was on the NuvaRing a year and a half and loved it. I then started noticing increased discharge and the week before I took out the NuvaRing every month I would have intense vaginal burning. I also started experiencing near panic attacks and not sleeping well. I also was having serious pain with sex and dreading having sex. I thought something was wrong with me until I took out the ring and left it out for a month. My mental health made a complete turn around. I was happy. No anxiety. Interested in sex again and no more burning. I decided to put the ring in again three days ago. I have had no energy and such bad anxiety I can't get out of my bed. I have also been so nauseated I thought I was pregnant. I'm insanely bloated and have gained 3 pounds in 3 days despite eating healthy and working out. As soon as I realized what was causing it I took that ring out. I am not a fan of any birth control but also don't want to get pregnant yet. Condoms it will be!"
"I was on the Nuvaring for about two years and I absolutely loved it the whole time I was on it! I found it extremely convenient and it was super easy to skip periods/plan my periods around any vacations. I did experience more discharge than usual, however no weight gain. The only downside, which is the reason I actually got off of it, was that I realized the Nuvaring was the source of my anxiety. I had really bad anxiety and was super emotional while I was on it but I honestly just didn't connect the two until recently. I got off of it and within the month I felt my anxiety go away and in more control of my emotions. I'm trying out pills now, but I am sad due to how convenient the ring was, if it wasn't for the anxiety I would still be using it! I know not everyone experiences this though so I would recommend to still try it out! Maybe it'll work better for you!"
"I had a horrible experience with the nuvaring. I developed debilitating anxiety and OCD while on it. It took a mental breakdown for me to evaluate what could possibly be the cause of my mental instability. Once I took the ring out, I was my old self again in 2 weeks. I still struggle with OCD, just not as severely. Unfortunately, however, I believe the nuvaring did some permanent damage. What I hope for all of you reading, is to remember to listen to your body! You know when something is wrong. Don't ignore it like I did until you go into crisis."
"Lord .....where do I start. I'll preface by saying this my 2nd month of being on the Nuvaring. The anxiety; the insomnia; the stomach bloating and added love handles. The damn constipation and gas— OMG!!!! Emotions through the roof; paranoia and  the CRAMPING and leg pain. WHAT IN THE WORLD????"
"I started the NuvaRing about 10 years ago (I am 27) after the old OrthoEvra patch created a horrible adhesive allergy. I leave it in for 4 weeks then replace immediately to skip my periods, though I do take a break week about once a year. I've been on hormonal BC continuously for 13 years so I can't say whether it affects my weight/mood/sex drive/etc., because I have nothing to compare it to. At first I had issues with physically keeping the ring in place, but I think my vaginal muscles adapted. I have no complaints other than I am prone to yeast infections due to being on a daily maintenance antibiotic, and the ring can be a bit irritating when things are already inflamed. I forget to put it back in sometimes and it takes about two days for that to make my period try to start. No major side effects+I've never gotten pregnant so 10/10"
"I loved Nuvaring as birth control at first, far easier to remember than the pill and super effective. HOWEVER it made me depressed, lazy, gave me a foggy brain, moody and this caused many hardships in my personal relationships. I closed myself off from the world and thought I might be suffering from depression. Once I had enough, I decided to see if it was my nuvaring so I took it out and switched to IUD. Within weeks I feel like myself again!! I am happy, super productive, love socializing again and no longer moody. Would not recommend the nuvaring to anyone. I suffered with the mood side effects and used nuva ring for two years and yet no doctor ever told me that it was an even a possibility thats why I was feeling so horrible. I'd also like to add it also caused a lot of inflammation and made sex very uncomfortable to me to the point I'd be crying."
"I started taking birth control pills for acne when I was 13, (now 19) and I absolutely loved them (ortho tri cyclen) Until one day, I started mid cycle spotting. Flash forward a year and I'm still spotting after trying multiple pills. I sat on google for hours reading reviews and was basically terrified to try this birth control. As soon as I started nuvaring, I had zero spotting! Pros: no break through bleeding, no headaches, I'm not pregnant, ring is comfortable & very easy to use. Cons:  or side effects are nausea is pretty bad especially the first 3 days of a new ring, I have NO sex drive, literally none, if there was a negative sex drive I'm pretty sure I'd have it, & my vagina is so irritated. If you are looking for a low maintenance birth control this might be for you! I am still on the ring but because I'm so over not having a sex drive, I'm going to try switching to something else. Otherwise I love this form of birth control, I just wish it increased libido."
"""I had Nuvaring inserted for maybe 48 hours when I started noticing some extra side effects my doctor did NOT tell me about. I was only told my sex drive would be lower and I might gain weight which I was ok with.
But I wake up one morning feeling extremely nauseous which isn't new but it usually goes away after a half hour of being up. Not this time. I couldn't leave my bed because my stomach cramps were so awful, I couldn't hold anything down, not water, crackers, broth. I had two awful anxiety attacks, thank goodness my roommate was home because if you know anything about anxiety attacks, you know how scary they can be.  I finally realized after 11pm that day “OH maybe it's the nuva ring!” I took that thing out so fast and less than two hours later the cramping, vomiting, and extreme anxiety attacks stopped. Obviously birth control effects women in different ways but after that awful experience I would never look back to the ring again."""
"I have been using Nuva ring for about 13 years now. I took a break 10 years ago when I decided to have a baby. I previously used other BC but the Nuvaring has work the best on my body than other BC. I have only experienced a small percent of low sex drive but nothing major. I am extremely  content with this birth control for the reason of my monthly menstrual cramps reducing."
"First let me just say, Nuvaring was horrible experience for me.  I've only been with this BC for two weeks, first day spotting which is normal from what the doctor said, 4 days in blood clots, tiny blood clots , acne depression and anger issues. I literally bled for two weeks straight took it out today because I had the worse backache ever I couldn't even breathe I was waking up everyday at 4:30 am not sleepy at all made me so hungry I was working out every day all of a sudden I started using this and I went from working out hardly ever,  fighting with my boyfriend had vivid dreams just horrible dreams. One day I had a sharp cramp in my stomach that it literally went to my heart and I felt that , this was horrible and I have decided to not use birth control just condoms. But this was horrible.."
"""I loved NuvaRing... until it caused a cerebral blood clot and stroke (CVST). 
A headache for days, memory problems, speech like word soup, ten days in the hospital, one in ICU, no emotion. I didn't know who my husband was.
Doctors put me on blood thinners and rehab therapy. Six weeks later I went back to work. Three months and multiple blood tests later, my doctors ruled out any hereditary causes for my stroke and attributed it to hormones in NuvaRing. I can never use birth control with estrogen again, and any pregnancies will be high risk. 
I have recovered, but nothing will take away the emotional trauma that I and my family experienced. My husband still breaks down in tears over how close I was to being permanently disabled or dying.
Please. If you are using or considering using NuvaRing, talk to your doctor about the risks. Not everyone using NuvaRing will experience what I did, but be informed. I DO NOT recommend NuvaRing."""
"As a 37-year-old woman getting back on BC for the first time in 10 years, I was suggested NuvaRing. I explained to my doctor that I am EASILY affected by hormones and I had already tried every type of BC out there. Still, I was told NuvaRing was the answer. Wrong! I've never had acne in my life - not through puberty, not through any of my pregnancies, etc. After 4 months of NuvaRing, I have acne like a 15 yr old just starting puberty, I've gained about 15-20 lbs in 4 months, & my appetite is off the charts. Ever since starting NuvaRing, I'm hungry all day, every day. Sometimes at 3am I'll be awake (insomnia is another side-effect for me) and I'll just want to eat - completely uncharacteristic for me. Irritability and motivation decrease are also present. I just took it out for the last time yesterday and I'm praying this gets out of my system very quickly. I feel fat and gross and unmotivated. I need my old self back with a quickness!"
"I have been using nuvaring for approx 8ish months. I had used it for a month previously a couple of years ago but after a depression scare on the pill any mood swing scared me off. This past 8 months have been great, some weight gain and a little more grumpy but overall worth it. Periods have shortened slightly and cramping lessened a bit. Only issues is increase in discharge and inflammation which can hurt during intercourse. For these two reasons I'm going to try out the implanon, but if that doesn't work out I'm definitely going back onto the nuvaring unless I choose something else."
"I started nuvaring 8 months ago after being on 3 different IUD's the past 17 years. At first I loved it. It did make my vagina swell the first week, but it wasn't irritating or a problem. Periods are kind of all over the place, & cramping is worst than ever before. Had me laying with a heating pad 3 out of the 5 days.  After 8 months I have gained 16 pounds and my anxiety and depression is through the roof. I had 3 panic attacks in the past 2 weeks & it is definitely from this birth control. On a positive note my cystic acne completely went away and my skin is for the most part really clear. Also-I have not gotten pregnant. I would recommend this product but to pay close attention to your mental health. If you feel anxiety & depression coming on you need to stop using it & contact your doctor.  I've also had brief suicidal thoughts. I stopped taking this & am trying the mini pill. Wish me luck. I am writing my review because I feel birth control side effects are extremely under reported."
"I used the NuvaRing for a couple years and it was going very well. Recently, I started using it back to back instead of taking breaks for my period. I became very moody. I was also in between a lot of depression medications but as soon as I took out the NuvaRing, everything seemed to change. I wasn't angry all the time or frustrated at the smallest things. I don't know if it was a reaction to my depression medication (Pristiq) but I feel a lot better now that I'm not using nuvaring. When I was using it alone it was great, that's why I gave it an 8."
"I was using nuvaring for about 3 months and at first it was fine but then I lost any and all sex drive. It was to the point where I was getting mad at my boyfriend because I wanted nothing to do with him in that way. My moods were all over the place and I gained a few pounds but nothing extreme. It is convenient to leave it in for three weeks but its a hassle taking it out before sex and remembering to put it back in within the time frame. Just wasn't a match for me. Your doctor won't tell you about sex drive loss, because it is not that common, but definitely know its possible! Hope it works for you"
"Works perfectly for me, I'm amazing at how negative some of the other reviews are. Background info I am 23, I was on it before when I was 19, (I went off due to lack of sexual activity). Last year I went on a pill contraceptive which made me hungry/moody, began binge eating and crying all the time. So after 6 months I went off that pill but I only had 2 periods in 6 months that followed. I knew I had to do something to get regular. And I also knew part of the reason the pill was causing me such mood swings was because I was terrible at remembering to take it on time. I knew that the Nuvaring provided a very simple solution to that. Take it, pop it in, leave it for 3 weeks and pop it out. Amazing. My period came back, my boobs grew, ( I have never really had boobs so I consider it a plus). I'm not experiencing any abnormal mood swings from sudden spikes and drops in hormonal intake. My period was relatively light and painless. Personally It's perfect."
"NuvaRing would have been perfect for me but it makes my vagina BURN so bad during and especially after sex. I love how convenient it is, I have had no mood swings or depression and it works like a charm besides the pain during sex. I have been on it for four months and was hoping the pain was just an initial side effect that would soon go away but unfortunately it is not. I will be going back to the pill in two days."
"I've used the nuvaring for 8 years after my 2nd IUD expelled itself. I never had nausea  and  adverse effects like what I had when I was on the pills. It's way easier to remember to change and some months I wear it for 4 weeks and skip my period and insert a new one. Doc said it's OK to do this but not for more than 4 months in a row. I have easy light periods and the ring makes them even lighter. I just love it and it's convenience. But as I approach my mid 30s it does scare me with the risk of blood clots especially being a smoker. Within the next few years my husband will have a vasectomy but until then I'll stick with nuvaring. It does cause more discharge throughout the day because its a foreign object in your vagina and your body supposedly creates more discharge to try to get it out. It's a bit annoying, but nothing crazy."
"After 5 months on nuvaring, I went to the doctor because I had stomach pain but the doctor found I had stones on my gallbladder and I need a surgery to remove it. Then  I stopped using Nuvaring for a while and I had bad acne, so my gynaecologist suggest me to take the pill because I had polycystic ovaries. Now I've been on the pill for a year, I eat healthy and I am active, there been some days that I keep restricting my diet, doing more exercise but my weight doesn't drop more that 1 or 2 kilos which is nothing compare to the effort I make to lose weight. It was so easy to lose weight without birth control. I kept track on my weight this whole time and I recently compare my fat percentage and I was surprise to find out that my weight fluctures 2 more or less kilos but while on nuvaring my fat percentage was lower that with the pill. So I'm thinking about going on nuvaring again."
"Got the nuva ring about 10 days ago, prior to it I had been on depo for over 17 years till 2015 when I went off it. I had the ring in for 7 days, I was extremely fatigued, fell into a dark hole of depression, gained about 8 pounds of water weight, so much water in my hands that I could barely bend my fingers. I became unmotivated and started to cry over everything. I had gas and bloating and my boobs swelled up. I took it out 2 days ago and tried to go to work today but only lasted 3 hours and had to go home sick. What a horrible experience, I need my life back!"
"The worst birth control so far. I do not feel in control of my emotions. I had depression t with really negative thoughts. I turned to everyone around me for validation about myself including my boss. I've suffered from severe paranoia, complex of inferiority, self doubt, self hate and I would cry at everything. I also gained 10 pounds and have not been feeling like my confidence self."
"""I was on the Nuvaring from the age of 21-33. I can't say anything but amazing things about this birth control. I was on the pill prior to the ring, and had issues with the emotional up's and downs with the traditional pill. My doc put me on the ring and I took it out every 28 days. No side effects, shorter period (was 6-8 days before the ring, then 2-3 days, yay!) You can also take it out during sex, as long as you wash it with cold water and insert within an hour or two (check with your doc, but that's what was conveyed to me & I never had any issues ; i.e. unwanted pregnancies.) The only reason I'm no longer on it now is because my doc says due to my age, its time for an IUD.
Loved the ring, and had absolutely ZERO side effects!
Everyone's body is subjective, however, I hope some read this and consider what I felt was the easiest, most effective form of birth control I personally found as a woman!
Best of Luck!"""
"I have been using NuvaRing for 3 years now. I really enjoy how convenient it is- you only have to remember 2 days out of a month. My periods are literally non-existent, I do still get the friendly cramps to remind me I am not pregnant. And my mood swings are not nearly as bad as they were on other high hormone pills. That being said, this pill did slowly eat away at my happiness. My outlook on everything was just BLAH. No interests, don't want to hang out with friends, don't want to do date nights with my boyfriend, no motivation to workout. It turned me into a zombie without realizing. Eventually took away ALL of my libido. No interest in my partner AT ALL. Was disgusted even at him touching me. That is the reason I am off it currently. Looking back on it now, the little libido I ever did have while using NuvaRing was the week I took it out to have my period. It is a great form of birth control just be aware of how it affects you. I hope this helps someone!"
"I had a hard time with the nuva ring.  I am in a hot area, so I thought I kept getting yeast infections/bv. However, the doctor has to test their patients before giving a prescription.  They ended up giving me a whole pap smear. I came up negative for everything including STD's. I had this unfamiliar sour flat smell that turned into a rotten smell if I didn't clean myself 5x a day. I didn't have an itch but my discharge was white and milky. My underwear smelled worse than the discharge itself, I couldn't take it. During the week I took it out, the smelly discharge would linger. I stopped using it. I smelled better and got my sex drive back. The bad thing is, I didn't realize but the nuvaring helped clear up my skin. So, I miss the assured convenience and acne free face, but am content smelling normal again. We need a close alternative to the nuvaring!"
"In year 2010 was my first experience. I used the ring for three months - mind you I have always taken birth control without a problem. In these three months I got aggressively depressed. Never thought it was the birth control until one day I went down the process of elimination and the ring was the last and newest thing in my life. I took that thing out and within an hour it felt like the veils had lifted. Recently I tried again, hoping for a different outcome. Again for 3 months. Again depression. The only good thing I can say about it is that I did not get pregnant."
"I love the Nuvaring! I've been on it for about 6 months now. It's the best birth control I've experienced. Others have made me gain weight and go crazy! Not this one. I did so much research at first before going on this. I thought how  can this ring protect you from pregnancy. But it does well! It's super convenient. Take it out during sex then just rinse it off and put it back in. It may seem weird but it's great. Only thing is don't have sex with it in. I did that and it did hurt a bit."
"I'm 18 years old and this is my first time being on any birth control. I went to PP in hopes of getting a non hormonal iud to find something to keep me protected without affecting my hormones as I get very irritable and have tons of mood swings on/before my period. I was discouraged from the iud and told I should try the Nuvaring. So far in this ONE week I'm facing extreme mood swings (I keep starting fights with my s.o. over nothing and small things make me cry and feel extremely depressed and hopeless), headaches, more discharge/ a yeast infection?, increase in appetite, and I haven't been feeling like leaving my room. The fact that its only been a week makes me wonder if this is just the hormones readjusting or the entire time of use will be like this. I'm not sure if I need to keep suffering through and doing a trial run for 3 months or just take it out now. Instead of helping my pre/during menstrual depression and irritability it has just made it far worse and far more often."
"I have been on the Nuvaring for 10 years and at first I loved it. I couldn't handle the pills, they made me sick. The last 3 to 5 years I have been getting extreme migraines that last for days. Too much discharge. And for almost the entire time my libido has been non existent. Almost as soon as I took out my ring My libido has come back and less discharge. I'm switching to an IUD to see if it will be better for me."
"I have been on and off this medication for about 10 months. Overall the pros are that I get less PMS and it made my periods more bearable and predictable. Also I am not pregnant.  The cons are many...it makes me super hungry like stomach eating itself hungry and causes indigestion like mad and not just in the beginning of taking it. All the time.  It has made me more moody and slightly depressed. I am just not as happy as I should be or that I was before taking this med. It makes me more sleepy than when off of it.  My boobs grew more full with this BC and I am generally more bloated . This BC makes me hold on to weight more easily than before and I gained about 2 to 3lbs on it. Not much.  Overall this is better than the YAZ I was on before it but just not worth the issues. I will prob go off it after my cycle."
"I've been on this birth control for a little over 4 years now.  I've never had a problem with it for the first 2/3 years but the past year or so I've had extreme weight gain even though I eat healthy and exercise as well as major back problems when sleeping and severe anxiety.  I'm afraid this medication has given me anxiety I will have to live with for a lifetime.  The ENTIRE time however I have suffered from migraines that last anywhere from 1 to 4 days long.  I am switching to a new birth control this week and hope this will fix some of these problems."
"I had copper IUD for 4 and a half months.  I have had 14 day long periods, random rage that I've  never had before and horrible cramps that stopped after month 3.  Also exhaustion and low iron from losing so much blood, very depressed and no motivation at all. Now I've switched to Nuvaring and I am on day two. I've had  migraines, congestion in lungs and sinus at random times but woke up on day two and felt great I could run again and no cramps. I did get nauseous a few times wanted to throw up and constipation but I'm hoping once I hit 3 months I'll get used to the hormones because paragard has none and Nuvaring does"
"I have been using the NuvaRing for about 5 months now and I'm really contemplating taking it out and stopping use. It has been effective at preventing pregnancy, but it is so annoying having to take it out every time you want to have sex. I have also had a severe increase in my acne and this started the week of putting the NuvaRing in. I had very clear skin before and this has been persistent for all 5 months so I attribute it to the NuvaRing. Overall, it has not been a great experience."
"I was on the Nuvaring from January- October and while it did not cause me to be pregnant, it had a lot of negative side effects. It contributed to my anxiety, which I had already had due to other birth controls. My main issue with nuvaring was the huge amount of weight gain. It triples your appetite, and because of this I have gained 2 stone. I have been off birth control for about two months now and already my mind is so much clearer, but I am starving all the time due to cutting down my formerly massive appetite! It's a handy medication but use it with caution"
"USER BEWARE. I am 22 y/o and have been using Nuvaring for about 2 years. Since then, I have put on about 30 pounds (due to intense increase in appetite), been diagnosed with anxiety and depression, have bouts of anger and irritability, and my sex drive is nearly non existent compared to pre-Nuvaring me. I chalked it up to the stresses of undergrad, and only NOW are my doctors and I linking this to Nuvaring. After reading some of the reviews on here, I am absolutely certain of it. Like a few others have mentioned as well, the week when my ring is out, I feel like myself again almost immediately (I am happier, more talkative, my sex drive is back, and I am able to control my appetite and eat healthier). Only reason I am giving this two stars is because it kept me from getting pregnant (although it did come out a few times DURING sex). I am now looking into getting an IUD in the next couple weeks, although the reviews on those do not have me feeling very optimistic either."
"""I am 23 years old and type 2 diabetic. I've used this birth control on and off for 5 years.
Until recently, I've liked nuvaring because it gave me the ability to customize when I wanted my cycle. Unfortunately, having to take an anxiety med with it has changed my mind about this method.
Pros: Customize your cycle, easy to remove, relaxed schedule, no pills.
Cons: Can interact with anxiety meds, can cause blood sugar spikes, weight gain, irritability, and for me personally, the first day of insertion always triggers a panic attack.
Use Nuvaring at your own risk, as the aforementioned issues can happen.
That being said, for someone young and in good health, nuvaring may still be a good option."""
"I used the nuvaring for four years. It took me that long to figure out what caused my problems such as : attacks of crying for no reason(2-4 hours on end), anxiety, depression, fatigue, rage, severe mood swings, difficulty in breathing, headaches, migraines. Eventually it became too much, I had to go on sick leave, due to severe cognitive impairment. I weren't able to follow simple instructions or engage in conversation. I suffered from memory loss, and I will probably never be the same again. 4 years have passed since I stopped using the nuvaring, and I still struggle. Shopping for groceries demands several hours of planning and my attention span is 25 minutes long. Whenever there's a social event I'm looking forward to a migraine soon after it ends."
"Apart from it being very convenient, I have almost nothing good to say about the NuvaRing. I've been on the it for 2.5 years now. I cry every day about everything, and I am so fatigued I get up at 7:30 and will nap before lunch, then again before dinner. My eyes are so dry I had to get a prescription for eye drops to improve my vision. My gums bleed when I brush my teeth. A little over a year ago my partner and I started having issues as sex became very painful for me, and I have almost no more sex drive. About 6 months ago I was diagnosed with anxiety and depression, and was put on medication for it. The people I love have noticed a huge difference in my personality. I took the NuvaRing out this morning, and will be getting an IUD soon. Here's to hoping things turn around for the better! TAKE THIS MEDICATION WITH EXTREME CAUTION, my symptoms took about a year before they started getting bad, and we think it will be months before I start to feel myself again."
"I used for a few months,  I didn't get pregnant, but my vagina got itchy every day and I could not longer sleep well. Also, vaginal discharge was a lot more than normal. I decided to take it out and boom!! An hour after itchiness was gone."
"Horrible depression, no motivation, horrible horrible anger. The second I started on nuva ring (for endometriosis) I had terrible diarrhea EVERY single day. I stopped for 2 months and had no stomach issues and I felt like myself again. I went back on nuvaring to give it another try and had instant diarrhea that I couldn't eat anything throughout the day until I was done with my day to prepare to be in the bathroom ALL night long. Don't like this birthcontrol."
"This option had pros and cons for me. I have been on it for over a year. It's a very easy and effortless option. It's nice to skip your period. I did have about 4-5 yeast infections in the past year, which never occurred until I started nuvaring. I have put on about 10lbs. Very bloated and so hungry all of the time!!! I also have a decrease in sex drive and mood fluctuations. I have become depressed over the past year and wonder if it is due to this medication. I am going to try the pill again at the end of this month. My doctor did not want to risk any more weight gain."
"My girl got pregnant... thanks Nuvaring"
"The nuvaring worked for me in that it prevented pregnancy for a whole year of constant unprotected sex. However, I have gained 20 pounds on it - I'm not sure if it's all because of the ring but I believe it did cause me to retain weight that I would normally have been able to work off. I also feel that it made me incredibly irrational and emotional, totally put a hole in my relationship for awhile. I'm excited to try being off hormonal birth control to see what changes."
"I love the nuvaring I've been on it now for about a year and haven't had any horrible side effects. It was a amazing change compared to the pills I was on, tri lo marzia (generic and non-generic) . That pill gave me horrible anxiety, depression, excess mucus and vomiting. I don't feel the ring during sex or in general, it has never fallen out or caused pain and my partner isn't bothered by it. I couldn't recommend this enough, if you haven't had great luck with pills try the ring."
"I have been using the NuvaRing for a year now. I have had a great experience with this method. I wanted something with little hormones and something I didn't have to take everyday. I didn't have any side effects."
"I'm 21 years old and I've been on this birth control for 2 weeks. Don't take this drug if you are prone to irritability. I was on it for 1 week AND I WAS SO MOODY AHHHHHHHHHH and all at my partner (tried to break up twice.)  Another reason, IT FALLS OUT I'M NOT KIDDING. I have a really tight snatch and it seriously still falls out. You're paranoid to death it's gonna fall out in the toilet and sometimes it gets stuck at the entrance and it pushes up against your bone and hurts like heck. You have to constantly push it back up too. The only thing good about this method is that it's easy to remember because it stays."
"I have been using the new the ring for over 6 years and I would never switch to any other birth control. I have used all kinds of other birth control and this is what I would stick to. I definitely prefer Nuva ring and highly recommend it..."
"""I've been on this medication since 2006 - I didn't want the patch or pills because I knew my body is susceptible to weight gain and the possibility of getting a blood clot (especially at the time, they were finding the patch was causing clots)  I have a family history of heart disease and stroke. I'm 31 years old right now and I'm still using nuvaring. The ring is convenient for me since I can leave it in continuous according to my doctor. It has fallen out once and I took plan B for extra measure but overall it is really really difficult for it to dislodge.
In my experience, I may have to get OFF birth control to revive my libido. I've noticed a decline in sex drive and it is annoying me because now my boyfriend thinks I don't want any, which I obviously do not. Nuvaring has cause me dryness and may correlate to not desiring sex because .. dry sex equals to after sex discomfort."""
"I'm 27 and I just started back on the NuvaRing a couple of weeks ago after taking a 6-12 month break from birth control. I had been on Nuvaring from age 14 until I was almost 27 and I had thought it was completely wonderful. I took a break to see what my body would be like without it and actually came out of my lifelong depression, anxiety, paranoia, and horrible sleep patterns. I had no idea that stopping NR was the reason until I started back on it again. After just two weeks, I am not sleeping, fighting with my partner, accusing him of all sorts of crazy things, breaking down in tears every moment, and feeling so tired and unmotivated. Took it out a few minutes ago as I read that many others like me loved it the first time (in our younger years) and have trouble with it now."
"I have had the nuvaring for 2 weeks & a couple days and honestly it is not too bad, I thought it was gonna be worse due to reading some reviews. The first two days I felt light headed and very tired but went away. The ring has not made me gain weight, I'm actually loosing weight due to eating healthy and working out 5-6 days a week. The ring has never fallen out or tried to. I never feel it and forget it's in there. I have more of a appetite but It is controllable. Some cons are some days I can be moody or irritable. I have been getting period cramps, some painful and some that don't bother me at all. Another thing I have experienced is that one day I got very depressed, I just laid in bed and ate what ever I wanted and was very emotional for no reason. I'm sure it's due to the ring because I didn't know why I was so down that day but I was fine the next day. It was very weird but  overall is an okay method of birth control."
"I'm 21 years old and start nuvaring back in January. Was on it for ~7 months and experienced the worst depression after the first month. I lost all motivation and happiness. I have possible IBS (irritable bowel synmdrome) and it made my stomach problems triple, was bloated 24:7 and gained 25lbs in 6 months. I was devastated and worked out every other day with a big decrease in appetite during my time on it. I would have anxiety when it got closer to my period week and found my mood swings to be irate. I didn't sleep well and was extremely exhausted all the time. Sex was painful but definitely protected me and didn't make me spot. Periods were light but got heavier towards the last month I took it where there was a lot of clotting. Nuvaring left me with more health issues than I started with."
"I have been on Nuva ring for 5 months now and am really liking it so far! I was nervous to start it after reading all the bad reviews but I found that ALL birth control methods have terrifying reviews online. Nuva ring has been working really well for me (I'm not pregnant so that is a big win)! It's really comfortable and I don't even notice that it is in. Also, neither my husband or I feel it during sex. I also haven't had any issues with it falling out ever. The only reason I give it a 9 out of 10 is because just this last month, I've been breaking out way more than usual and my skin feels more oily. Not sure if my body is adjusting to the ring and this is my new normal or if it's just been a stressful month with lots of travel and starting grad school. The good news is, I started a great skin care routine (bio clarity) and my acne has really subsided. I also haven't noticed any mood or weight change."
"I started the Nuvaring June 2017 at 20 years old. A year and a couple months later I'm still using it monthly and getting comfortable with skipping periods and getting it at the same exact time every month. It has helped me so much with my mood swings, depression, body aches, cramps, long and heavy bleeding, cravings, and fatigue. I also had good results on the pill I took before this but love not needing to take a pill every single day. The one thing I don't like about the Nuvaring is that is did decrease my libido and I get nervous with knowing it can be activated if it gets too warm. Other than that I haven't had any of these negative issues stated here but remember - everyone's body will respond differently."
"This was a big mistake. I went in for a consultation about an IUD and got talked out of it and was told I should try this first since I can do it myself. I thought it was perfect. BOY WAS I WRONG. The ring put me into a worse depression than ever before. My hormones were all out of balance, I got acne, it constantly fell out and was uncomfortable, had heavy periods, gave me yeast infections, etc. I stuck it out for 3 months and finally took it out and went for an IUD. Getting off this birth control was one of the best decisions. Be very careful when using this drug..."
"The NuvaRing is officially “the devil”, I loved it the first two years and like most was recommending it to everyone. However, I got off it for four months (Jan-April 2018) then went back to it in May because I didn't want to get prego. Well it's been a nightmare since, I have the worst mood swings and can't stand my own self. Lost all motivation, depressed, angry, happy, sad. Labia itches, armpits smell weird, constant headaches and bloating. It's like I'm living in a nightmare and I can't get out because I'm afraid of becoming pregnant....... so I lay around crying all the time wishing for something to change. OH AND yeah the week I take it out I do feel human again, so I think I should take it out NOW and feel alive again."
"I started depo March of 2016, decided to try out Nuvaring because of the ease and I felt like I would be in control of my bday. I started Nuvaring in November of 2017 and nothing extremely noticeable went wrong. The months past and I started to notice my hair was thinning but I didn't think much of it. February of 2018 is when everything went TERRIBLE. Insomnia, anxiety, depression. I was a MAD WOMAN I just couldn't pin point my change in emotions to Nuvaring. One morning in June I woke up and could literally not stop crying for no reason something instantly snapped and I snatched the Nuvaring out that day. Suddenly, my mood changed for the better. Here I am in August and my mood swings are awful the week of my period. It feels like I'm on Nuvaring all over again. Hopefully my hormones balance out and I'm not stuck feeling like this the rest of my life."
"Bleeding a lot on month 2 and experienced painful sex 50% of the time:("
"""This drug ruined my life. I've lost my job, 
I couldn't recognize myself, I even suffered severe anxiety and depression. I was on leave for 2-3 months from work. I am better since being off of the drug but never quite the same unfortunately. I still suffer from anxiety though not as severe as when I was actively on the drug. I wish I never started this medication. I was a positive hard working person prior now I can't seem to get back on track."""
"Easy to use, loved how just pop in and don't worry about it. I have found first month a mild headache daily while it settled in. My sex drive has gone down but I just blamed my useless boyfriend haha My appetite did go up I've been on for 3 months and I think it's made me put on weight. Give it a try as it's really convenient, see how you go. At least your in complete control and can take it out yourself no Gyno appt for removal like others"
"I went to my gyno because I was experiencing anxiety due to hormones. He put me on this to "regulate" hormones. It sent me into one of the worst depressions I've ever experienced. Anxiety, horrible dark sadness, nausea, vomiting, smells made me gag, extreme insomnia (didn't sleep a wink for 4 nights straight) and rage. I went to the doctor to get some sleeping pills because I literally could not sleep and she recommend I take out the ring. Literally 24 hours later my brain turned back on. It's been 5 days and I feel a lot better but not completely. This stuff was hell on earth. Please take with extreme caution!"
"This was the worst birth control experience of my life. I took yaz, and loestrin Fe for years before this med. I used it for two months. I just took it out one week early, because of the illness I experienced. I am on day four of a migraine. I am 28 and have never experienced such a long and intense migraine, with so much vomiting and shaking and eye pain. I got a bunch more migraines than usual overall from this med, but this one takes the cake. This stuff is pure poison in my body. One should note I am otherwise an 100% natural eater and exercise almost daily. Healthy other than this poison. Can't wait to go back to feeling normal. August 2018"
"""I've been using the Nuva ring on and off for 3/4 years. I never got any effects like vomiting, head aches etc and I never got pregnant from it so It seemed like it was good. Until I started getting depressed. For months I couldn't pin point what it was (of course life in general sometimes causes it, work, relationships etc) However something kept telling me to stop using the ring. I stopped using it at the beginning of last week and I have a completely different outlook on life now! More energy, no mood swings and I generally feel happier.
I'm done with tricking my body with hormones, its back to rubbers for me!"""
"I used the ring for a little over 10yrs no problems, no weight gain, but about 5yrs into it, I started having chest pains every so often, as well as really bad headaches and nausea I put up with it do to the convenience of the ring, but then started getting really painful periods to the point that I took it off and all the symptoms went away. After about 8 months then I got pregnant no problem now my husband is just going to have a vasectomy to avoid all the complications the come with birth  control medications."
"""19-20 years old. When I was on it about 1 year, continuous use, I did not have a period for about 1 year.  Then I started having severe!!! pain randomly that I couldn't walk and had to stop to try and breathe. At night, I would wake up because of such severe back pain, it was the most hurtful thing I ever experienced. I would have to use the bathroom in pain for about 1 hour before going back to bed with no pain. This happened almost every other night. It was EXCRUCIATING PAIN that I have never felt elsewhere.
Obgyn said that it was nothing special and to do stretches, eat better, earlier before sleeping. But when I took my ring out to get a period every three months, my back pain went away. When I have a period it gives me the worst cramps but only lasts 2 days. 
It's been good and bad but man..  if you're not scared of the shot or having an IUD, that's a lot better than the ring.   If you're not even having sex then don't do it. The back pain I got is definitely not worth it."""
"Have tried various pills and mirena before nuvaring. Very happy with nuvaring. Helps with my acne (which was terrible with mirena), I can't feel it at all (even during sex) and love not dealing with the stress of taking a pill daily. Only problem in the expense, but in Australia my private health insurance covers half the cost. Other friends who have tried have not had as much success, but it works great for me."
"I had the nuva ring in my early 20s and loved it. My insurance stopped paying the majority of the cost for it, though, and so I had to switch. I am now 30 and got back on it and hate it! I got through my first three months and felt ok. The next two months is where it got bad. My Dr recommended it for my PMS symptoms but it made them worse instead of better. I was moody and I mean MOODY! So much so that my boss asked if I am alright because I am typically a happy person. I felt extremely tired all of the time. Had basically all of the pregnancy symptoms. Gained 12 pounds in one month out of nowhere. Headaches all day everyday and nothing would relieve them. I took it out a month ago and have already seen a tremendous difference in all of those symptoms."
"After spending 2 years on Nuvaring and ending up on blood pressure and anxiety medicine I'm done and never looking back! An incident with insurance caused me to lose my coverage for a few weeks so that when I needed a refill I couldn't afford it and decided to go without it. I couldn't be happier that it happened that way. I realized soon after not having it in my system that I felt like a total different person. While on it my blood pressure was up which led to me being put on meds for that. And it caused all sorts of other problems! Such as anxiety, depression, panic attacks, high heart rate and a pounding heart, constant nausea ( I had motion sickness just moving my head), headaches when it got close to the time to take the ring out. Extreme weight gain and hunger, moodiness, anger, the list goes on! I just can't get over how different I feel after coming off of it. I no longer need the anxiety or blood pressure meds, and my therapist even let me stop coming!"
"I took NuvaRing for years in my mid to late twenties. Loved it. I never gained weight, it prevented pregnancy, I had no cramps (except for the first two months), I loved the option of having a period or not, and I liked monthly option vs daily. The only downfall I experienced was more mucus “down there.” I then took a break from the Nring so we could have children. I am now 35-y-o, back on it, and my experience with NuvaRing is completely different... and I'm getting off it stat! I've had major weight gain (12 lbs), am extremely moody, I get the worst cramps, my sex drive has diminished, I feel less motivated/more tired, and I'm getting frequent migraines. I did read the risks of taking it if you're 35 and older beforehand (blood clots) but I never had symptoms and felt I'd give it a try. I don't recommend this at all for women 35-y-o+ and those who have given birth. The estrogen that is added to the ring has been no bueno for me."
"Was on it for 3 years had many problems from being fatigued to cranky to blood clots which was the worst. I guess it depends on everyone's body. Mine as soon as I got off it everything was upside down. Had gum problems for a year thanks to the crazy hormones , discoloration on skin  , bad skin , severe sensitivity to the sun. Now off going on 18 months from not using any bp and I feel so much better will never use any method unnatural again!!!"
"I'm a 25 year old, good health and was on NuvaRing for 3 months, ended up in the ER and diagnosed with Venus Sinus Thrombosis, AKA I had a stroke and an active blood clot in my brain. I had lost half of my right eye vision. Was in the hospital for 5 days, now I'm on blood thinners and being monitored closely. They believe NuvaRing was the cause of my stroke!! Please BE VERY CAREFUL on this birth control!! I had just made it to the hospital on time and was blessed enough to be a survivor!!"
"I have been using the nuva ring for about 2 weeks roughly. It has caused me stomach aches in the beginning followed by headaches. As its coming up to the date where I'm suppose to take it out I'm feeling menstrual cramps, mood swings, anxiety/panic attacks, and depression waves. I do not feel like myself. I can't sleep, and I can't eat properly. I was recommended to use this medication because I was diagnosed with PCOS- (Polycystic ovary syndrome) I am 24 years old, I have never been on birth control till now. I will be making an appointment with my doctor about this, it's actually really bad."
"Used Nuvaring on and off. Gave me the worst cramps of my life! Aside from that I had no other problems. I'm debating on going back on it or trying the implant since my IUD is due to come out next month."
"I been on Nuvaring for a week now and I feel totally fine no symptoms of any kind just left appetite. After reading all these horror stories I'm a little worried, I guess it depends of our bodies we're all different."
"This ring was hell for me. Week 1: Excited to try a convenient form of birth control. For the first two weeks I experienced mood swings but thought this will stabilize. I also had a surge of acne which I normally do not have. Week 3-4: Acne went away but mood swings continued. Week 5: same. Week 6, 7, and 8: horrible. I started bleeding heavily every day heavier than a period for three straight weeks. This was accompanied by cramping and an upset digestive system. Week 4: I passed a blot clot vaginally which hasn't happened since I had my daughter 3 years ago. By the end of the second month I was physically exhausted from the blood loss and pain and an emotional mess from being unstable for 2 months straight. I took it out...and it's like the sky became blue again slowly I returned to my normal self. No birth control method is worth this type of hell. Done and done. Back to the pill."
"I've been on nuvaring for 3 months and it's been the worst decision I have ever made. I'm removing it today. Since I started nuvaring I get strong headaches, nausea, dizziness, depressed, angry, dizzy."
"""I went off Nuvaring last year after struggling with crazy side-effects for over 6 months, and I still think of the time on it in total horror.
I was seduced by the ease of use and the convenience. The idea was great. What it did to my mental health was a horror.
I wasn't myself; I had horrible mood swings. Even thoughts of sex revolted me. The loving touch of my partner made me want to throw up. I have never experienced similar states of my libido. Sex did not just seem disgusting it was painful. Dry like a desert. I feel like I lost a year of an awesome sex life to nuvaring. The week I went off it was a huge relief and a return to the senses, an end to the mental self-blaming hell, return of healthy emotions and desire.
So, if you're wondering if NuvaRing is messing with your desire and mood - it is. Trust yourself and your body. Don't prolong this suffering, switch to something else."""
"""I've been on Nuvaring as a birth control for years and it cleared my acne. Made me feel more stable emotionally. I loved not having to take a pill everyday. The only problem I had with it is that my sex drive is super low when I'm on it. 
After having a baby I switched to another birth control but I'll probably switch back to nuvaring."""
"If I could rate this a zero I absolutely would. I've had the worst experience being on it. Severe mood change, depression and anxiety. I never was able to put two and two together until recently due to the fact I had been off of it and felt a million times better, then got back on it a week ago. Immediately the symptoms came back. The feeling when I was on it ruined my life, lost my job, eagerness to enjoy life, pushed family and friends away, hated who I was as a person. I'm not saying everyone will have this but for me I felt at my worst. On the positive side of things, since being off of this and going through a rough couple years, it's changed me for a better person, I no longer see things one way or the other, I see beauty in everyone and everything."
"For reference, I was previously taking Tri-Sprintec which stopped agreeing with my body - I started to experience breakthrough bleeding during weeks 2 and 3. I was then switched to Sprintec, which also had the same side effects along with constant hunger. I thought I'd give Nuvaring a try as I liked the idea of not having to remember to take a pill everyday. I do not feel it at all at any point, I've had no issues with it falling out, no hunger or other side effects and my period is the lightest it's ever been and down to about 3 days. Very happy. I know most people only leave reviews when they're unhappy with something. I wanted to be sure the positive is also shared as everyone is different."
"I would not recommend this form of birth control to anyone. The side effects are a nightmare. I used my Nuva Ring for approx. 3 months before I had to discontinue use.  I lost a HUGE amount of hair. My hair started thinning so rapidly after I started using the ring and it took me a few months to realize that the ring was causing it. I also had Zero sex drive whatsoever. I removed the ring but I feel that my hair is still thinner than when I started. DO NOT try this birth control."
"I was on Nuvaring for 7 years and I accredit bloating and occasional UTIs to it. It kept my skin clear and it was easier to remember than a daily pill so I might switch back to it as I've been very unhappy with all other birth controls I've tried."
"I was on nuvaring years ago and while my husband (then boyfriend) didn't say anything, he later told me it made me “crazy”. I didn't remember that. All I recalled was that my adult acne cleared up and I didn't get the brown upper lip I got from other BC. I went back on it recently for 3 mths and the only pros were: no pregnancy and I skipped my honeymoon period. I was a newlywed and I was supposed to be happy as ever..instead I was clinically depressed. I had mood swings. I craved sweets constantly with no self control. I'm usually a health nut and a gym junky. I was weak and tired. I got home and would climb in bed when I used to hit the gym. I hadn't worked out since I started the BC due to utter exhaustion. Since I quit I've got energy and I've regained control of my appetite. I think every body reacts different to meds. Give it a try but be advised of possible side affects. Don't just live dragging through life when there's other BC options."
"I used NuvaRing during the entirety of my 20s and loved it. It is an extremely effective birth control method and I didn't experience any negative side effects. However, I just began using it again last week after a 3 year period of abstinence and I am experiencing really severe anxiety and a sour stomach. It was wonderful before, so I'm just going to wait a month or two to see if I adjust to it, but I really wasn't expecting this at all based on my prior experience."
"I have been on the Nuva Ring for 3 years now and I absolutely love it! I don't have to remember to take a pill everyday, it's comfortable (I don't feel it while I have it in at all), it's very easy to insert and remove. I haven't had any bad side effects thankfully, unlike other types of birth control I've tried in the past that gave me horrible side effects. I did find out from my doctor, because I seemed to constantly get yeast infections after sex (yes he did "go" inside me) and couldn't figure out why, Well come to find out if you have sex with it in and your partner ejaculates inside of you, you need to take the NuvaRing out, wash it off and insert it back in. Once I started doing so I no longer had any issues! So still till this day this is honestly my favorite type of birth control."
"I've been on NuvaRing for 6 months now and am deciding to take it out TODAY. I've been noticing the DAY I'm supposed to take it out for a week to have my regular period, I literally feel like jumping off a cliff. I'm so depressed. I am a singer/performer and love being on the stage and around people. Lately all I want to do is be home in a cave and not see anyone. Even if I'm out hanging with a friend, I immediately have anxiety, want to go home and don't enjoy the things I usually do. I've been so nauseous for months but never tied it to birth control. I have bouts of crying episodes for no apparent reason. I even have waves of paranoia and rage...especially when it comes to moments with my boyfriend. My sex drive is pretty much the same but besides that I feel like a different person. I can't live like this anymore. The is not the person I used to be. Hoping I feel better in a few days.."
"I was on NuvaRing for 7 years before I decided to stop taking it so I could have a baby. It worked well as a contraceptive. In those 7 years, not once did I get pregnant. It took away all my face, neck and back acne. I did gain 10 pounds even though I exercised weekly and ate less. My libido was not great, but manageable. No other side effects but those. After I stopped taking it, it took 2 months for me to get pregnant. Now I have a 2 year old boy."
"""Was on it for 8 years
1) crushing migraines 
2)30 lb  creeping weight gain-Without changing diet-   spontaneously shed  to 20  pounds without trying when off it
3) SEVERE panic disorder
4) 100% loss of sex drive
5) dizziness and vertigo
6) perfumes caused nausea
7) Extremely enhanced sense of smell
8)  queasy 
9) Light sensitive..pupils like pinholes, even in dim light
10) dry eye
11) chronic diharrea
12) heart rhythm problems when standing for longer than five minutes.
13) hair thinning on scalp
14)decreased sweating
15) hot and cold flashes -23-31 years old
16) heat exhaustion while spending time outside in  summer 
12) hot all the time-  kept the a.c. in my classroom freezing cold
13)vaginal itching
14)gum recession 
15) hands and fingers puffy
16) A1C range verging on diabetes even only 15 pounds over  healthy BMI range.
And guess how many of these symptoms went away after I stopped Nuvaring?
        EVERY      SINGLE     ONE"""
"Honestly the nuva ring works differently on everybody, each individual has different side affects to things and the Nuva ring works wonders for me. I've been using it for 4 years and have not had any bad side affects at all, it's gave me clear skin and it's helped me maintain a steady weight. It definitely prevents pregnancy if used correctly and it's very easy to use. Only negative thing I have to say about it is that my boyfriend experience a mild sensitivity to it but that went away after a couple months."
"My experience was absolutely the worst. I used the Nuva ring for 2 years with my boyfriend. I argued with him so much and thought he may have cheated (I thought it was him) causing the reoccurring Yeast infections, BV, and UTI. My sex life was so up and down because of the infections. I would literally burn so bad after sex. I stayed at my OBGYN's office. The bad thing is I asked my doctor did she think the Nuva ring played a role in these infections. The office kept telling me to wear condoms or change hygiene habits. I did everything stopped scented soaps and everything. If I had really done my research on this then I would not have used this ring. I was told it was the safest BC. The only good thing is that I did not get pregnant. Please do not use NUVARing the side effects are not worth it. #1 risk of heart attacks and blood clots and #2 vaginal infections. Please do your research and save yourself the time and headaches."
"""It made me feel depressed and very anxious. Got mad at my boyfriend for no reason. All that started after using the ring. Was close to having a proper panic attack for absolutely no reason. Also it made my appetite increase and made me crave sweets all the time. That is absolutely not like me.
I stopped during the 5th day of my second ring. But 2 of my friends are on it and they like it.
It made my period easier, it's super easy to insert. You don't feel it when it's in there. Just have to remember to put it back in on time after sex."""
"Have used nuvaring twice. For roughly 4 months last year,  after which I took it out because I was experiencing headaches, weight gain and constant bleeding. Nuvaring did help to clear up my hormonal acne which I get once a month before my period starts. I did not get pregnant so it did work as birth control. I recently put the nuvaring in again as a retrial, but it's only been a week and I'm taking it out. I have a constant headache, my appetite is haywire. I have stabbing chest pains and after reading some of the dangers of nuvaring, although rare, I've decided it's not worth the risk or side effects."
"I tried nuvaring because I got tired of having to remember to take a pill everyday. It was a bad experience. I've never had acne and when I started taking it I began breaking out. I thought it might take a month or two to get used to it and as of the third month the acne was getting worse. Initially, it caused cramps and was irritating my vagina. The irritation subsided for the most part but there were days it was very uncomfortable. As most birth controls do, it caused weight gain not a huge amount but definitely several pounds. It made my appetite increase significantly, especially for sweets. It's likely because you're body is being exposed to all those hormones at once instead amor a small amount at a time like the pill. I'm sure it has worked great for other people but for me it's a NO!! I really wanted it to work, sometimes simpler is better so it's back to the pill for me."
"I was afraid of trying Nuvaring after reading the reviews, but it's worked really well for me. It's been 6 months now, and I'm less depressed/anxious and my hormones are more stable. I'm using it for endometriosis. The oral pills I tried gave me horrible acid reflux. I had a bad reaction (hair loss) to LoLoestrin, horrible mood swings on OrthoTriCyclen Lo, got seriously depressed on Apri. I don't have headaches or circulation problems with Nuvaring, but prior to taking BC, I had trouble with my blood not clotting fast enough. My only complaints with nuvaring are: 1. issues with it fitting/staying in place the first week, I guess it's too rigid and too long (awkward) and 2. I've experienced breakthrough bleeding for weeks at a time when I try to skip my period (doctor's instructions for dealing with my endo). Overall, the steady dose of hormones has made mood swings much less of a problem. And there's no alarm on my phone anymore to remind me to take my BC pill."
"Although it did it's job by never getting me pregnant, I had many infections while using the NuvaRing. Our vaginas aren't made to have something artificial sitting in it at all times, so I think it irritated me. Having regular vaginal infections was not fun and definitely put a damper on my sex life. With that being said, I think I am very sensitive. My body seems to reject anything foreign, even ear piercings. So if this seems like a good option for you, I would definitely try it and see how your body responds."
"Terrible. I had it in for two days and was so moody- I was irritable with my boyfriend and all my coworkers and I'm usually a very happy person. I decided to switch from the pill to the nuva ring because I'm not good at taking my pill on time but I could not deal with the way it was making me feel. I know that my body needed time to get used to the hormones but I couldn't take it."
"Worst experience of my life. Ended my relationship with my boyfriend and caused major family issues that I don't know how to fix. My anger was like a car without brakes. I felt violent and enraged from about 3 days in, and had terrible acne and insomnia. I had a proper psychotic episode that lasted almost two months. I can't warn against it strongly enough. I would have ended up in prison if I used it longer."
"I've been on the nuvaring for about six months now and the first three months was miserable. My whole face had broke out in cystic acne, which I've never had before.  It was very stressful getting rid of certain foods that I thought caused my breakout but after my face cleared up I realized it was just my body getting used to the birth control.  I don't notice any signs of depression but I have real bad anxiety that I've never had before.  Also, my boyfriend and I get into these little arguments over NOTHING! Right when he starts to raise his voice at me I just break down crying for no reason. I haven't gotten pregnant on this and it has never fallen out for me, however, I'm definitely going to consider switching to an IUD."
"This was horrible I bled the entire time and had cramps from it being inside of me. Once I took it out I felt better. Everything was a lot better never again everyone's body and is different but use at your own risk"
"Nuvaring was very easy to insert and never fell out. BUT I'VE NEVER BEEN MORE DEPRESSED IN MY LIFE. I was already a little depressed due to extra stress and life events but I've never been suicidal. It also took away my sex drive within the first day. I have friends who love it, but it's not for me. It also made my panic attacks more intense and more frequent and longer in duration. Took it out after only 2 weeks."
"For me, the Nuvaring was much easier than using the pills which I was taking before I had it. You wouldn't miss a day since it's inside you till you need to get it out for your next period or you can skip it, but I wouldn't recommend it since it gave me bad cramps skipping my period once.  It's very easy to use and I would only forget to insert it or remove the day I needed it in or out.  I could tell when I would need to remove it because I would have cramping right before my period so that's the time it would be out and changed a week after.  My periods are much lighter and doesn't last as long as before which I love a lot.  It's only fallen out during intercourse in a very weird position once, but it was very easy to put back in.  I don't really have any problems with it, but I just want to try something different like the IUD and I would go back to this if the IUD isn't for me."
"""I was on this for about a year while with my ex, and another year while single. 
pros: 
Didn't get pregnant. 
No mood swings 
Regular periods 
Option to skip periods (but dont skip several in a row or you'll bleed for weeks)
Light and pain free periods. 
Cons: after a couple months, I constantly had a yeast infection. Every time we had sex I'd get one. 
Diminished sex drive while with my ex and again the second time. The second time, I barely looked at men for the year I had it. 
I got a scratch near my vaginal opening and I think the ring played a part in it becoming infected.
I got off this both times because of the infections and lack of sex drive. 
I could tell the hormones were leaving my system when I went to the gym, and suddenly noticed all the attractive men. So it's doubly effective in preventing pregnancy. Kills that sex drive."""
"HORRIBLE! I am always a happy person and within  5 days I have severe mood swings and anger that would shoot out of no where. Barely wanting to talk to my boyfriend. Constant appetite, bloating, fatigue, dizziness. It's been horrible, I've been depressed. I just took it out and won't be using it again."
"When I looked through all of the reviews, I was hesitant to try the nuvaring. However, I have endometriosis and I have already been on SIX different forms of hormonal birth control, and I was miserable each time. My OBGYN didn't give me much of a choice but to switch again. The nuvaring is now my saving grace! My periods are so much more regulated, I'm not in NEARLY as much pain in between periods as I was before, and although I find that with the nuvaring that my periods are slightly more painful and take a bigger toll on my body than the pill, they only last 4 days as opposed to 7+ on the pill. It has its pros and its cons, but for me I am in love with the nuvaring! I was apprehensive before taking the nuvaring but I'm happy I took the risk!!"
"For the first 3 months I loved nuvaring, until I realized it was what was causing me to have reoccurring yeast infections. The second time I changed the ring it had all sorts of hair wrapped around it, which I figured is certainly a place for bacteria to grow.  I finally decided to take the ring out when I had an allergic reaction to it. Would not recommend this to somebody who has had a yeast infection in the past or has sensitive skin."
"NuvaRing was not my favorite birth control. The best thing about it was not having to take a pill every single day. It is convenient and I didn't get pregnant, so it did its job. However, it did make me gain about 10-15lbs. while being on it, I had no self control when it came to eating. Which sucks because I'm a pretty healthy person! I eat well and exercise regularly, so this side effect was super frustrating. It also made me super emotional and anxious, especially around my period. I did have some random spotting before my period too. I've heard of people who didn't like it because of it falling out, but that never happened to me while being on it. After being off NuvaRing for about a week, my mood & weight returned to normal."
"This birth control SUCKS!! I've been on it for over 3 years now. The whole first 2 years I was on it I thought it was amazing! Don't be fooled! What's great about this birth control is I have very short and very light periods, no weight gain, very minimal cramps and sometimes none at all. It's effective... probably because it makes you never want to have sex again ever in your entire life. I went on this birth control before I ever had sex, but about 2 and a half years in I could barely handle having sex at all. I love my boyfriend very much and we have been together for 4 years, but I don't like to be touched anymore, I don't ever get turned on, I have vaginal dryness, and sex has started to hurt so bad it is almost unbearable! Not to mention extreme discharge that just gets worse over time. This birth control had its pros, but is definitely no longer for me!!"
"Soooo this is the second time on this for me... first time I was on it for almost 4 years. Was off for about 3 years and was on the pill. I just put one in Sunday, took it out tonight. My body has been used to no hormones for over 6 months and I noticed all negative side effects this go around. Severe anxiety, instant mood swing, crying for no reasons, depression and basically a dark cloud. No more for me."
"I've tried pills and patches and that little thing they insert in your arm, but the Nuvaring has been the best so far. Makes periods extremely regular and on a set schedule, I can track months in advance when I'm going to get it, say, if I'm planning a trip or something. No weird side effects except maybe during the first couple months which people don't seem to realize is normal for all types, your body needs to adjust. Have been on at least 4 yrs though so hard to remember if there were any. Gave 9/10 simply because there is a chance of it slipping out which you need to be wary of."
"I took out Nuva Ring on day 11 because it caused me to be super emotional and made me break up with my boyfriend. At first, you think that it's actually you getting super mad and selfish and jealous, and you say bad words and just cry and scream for no reason. Next morning you wake up a different person and apologize hundreds of times. Then the other night same story repeats and it's a never ending cycle.... If that ever happens to you on this ring please take it out."
"""Been on the Ring for 18 days so far. I have not gained weight although my breasts are significantly larger and sore (gained 3.25"" on my bustline so far!). My libido has not decreased, in fact, I think it has increased. No complaints from my bf on either of those! ;-)
My only complaint was a little bleeding/spotting for about 2 weeks. I read that is very common when you start it. 
There were a lot of terrible reviews and I was really scared to try Nuvaring, but everything has been fine. Don't let it deter you. Give it a try and give it some time for your body to adjust."""
"I started the ring in the first day of my cycle and had heavy bleeding for about 16 days straight. It was too much and had no signs of stopping so I removed it. I continued to bleed for another week. I will never try that one again. It was not just light bleeding either it was a heavy flow. Yes it prevented pregnancy though... No way I could even enjoy sex bleeding so badly."
"I was on nuvaring for about 5 months, and I thought I loved it. I had no physical side affects that I noticed with other birth controls, my periods were shorter and lighter so i really loved this. During the duration of me taking this pill, I lost almost 20 pounds, I became suicidally depressed, I realized I had my very first anxiety attack after JUST starting this birth control. I was already depressed to begin with, so it was hard being able to pinpoint what was causing such darkness and sadness. During the week that it was out, I decided to switch back to the pill. I cannot tell you how much of a great choice that was because after a week, my entire energy completely changed, I've started to eat again, I'm not in that extremely dark place I once was. Even after doing research on this birth control, I still couldn't connect the dots. But I'm glad I finally did! Do your research ladies, be aware of your body and mind."
"I have given this a 1 only because it has prevented pregnancy. I have been on the Nuvaring for 8 months and have hated it. Severe SEVERE anxiety and depression, thoughts of no longer wanting to live. Thinking that I'm just crazy. Fighting with my husband over absolutely nothing, with the worst anger is the no sex drive. My family has watched my dwindle into an angry person and that's not who I am. I can hardly sleep, I stay up until 2 most nights and sometimes later. Along with stomach pain. Unable to lose weight. If I could give this a negative number I would. I just hope I can get back to my old self after all of this for so long."
"Birth control is tough. But the nuvaring is by far the best I have ever tried. There will never be a perfect birth control. Unfortunately, this is something women will most likely always struggle with until there is something that men can take. (But men are weak and probably won't last on BC because of side effects, LOL)   The only side effects I have are: Lots of discharge (it's a foreign object in your vag- and your body is doing its job to try to flush it out) & Irritability and lack of patience. Other than that- it has been wonderful. I DO take it out before sex and promptly replace it after.  Everyone is different, but my experience has been great!"
"been on nuvaring for 2 months. put it in and was going to skip my period, leave in for 3 weeks then a new one. 3 weeks after I started spotting. realized days later that I missed my 3 week mark. left it in until the end of 4th week and put new one in. Tomorrow will be 3 weeks since and I have been bleeding despite having ring in this whole time. The bleeding is full and clots with cramps and the ring itself is stained! I read when women skip their period they bleed. So tomorrow will take it out and have a period and see if it stops. I gave 5/10 because it has prevented pregnancy"
"I decided to switch to Nuvaring since I was forgetful and wouldn't stay on top of taking my pills everyday. I have been on Nuvaring about 8 months and have gained ~20 pounds and have kept my same diet and activity level. The first few months I didn't gain any weight and then BAM! Twenty pounds, sore breasts and awful mood swings. I don't recommend this to anyone. Wish I would have just gotten my life together and learned how to take a pill everyday so I wouldn't have to be dealing with this nightmare.."
"I was on and off the nuva ring. I tried 3 times every time i was on it my stomach hurt so bad and I felt nauseous. I took it out and tried again a month later and I felt sick again. I'm not sure what in the world they put in the nuva ring but it makes u feel sick all the time. I just recently put it in last Sunday the whole week I felt sick and bloated, the middle of my back was hurting and sore I just took it out literally 5 min ago and it I feel normal again. This is the 3rd time this has happened. Its frustrating."
"I gave the nuva ring a 3 only bc it did effectively prevent pregnancy for the last 7 months but the other side effects are just not bearable. I have been using it for about 7 months and decided enough was enough the day after Xmas and took it out days before it was due to come out . The reason is extreme exhaustion/fatigue. I attributed exhaustion and anxiety/depression to just about everything but I realized it is the ring bc last month I removed it 10 days early by accident and even tho I bled for a lil while ( ins would not cover ring early ) I felt full of energy which is how I am normally. The first time I picked it up from the pharmacy the girl said it made her feel " hungover". I shrugged it off at the time but that is how I feel !"
"Been on the Nuva Ring for almost a year now! Never had any problems with it. It's super comfortable but I have had it fall out during sex but it's better than taking a pill everyday!"
"I have been put on nuvaring for a year and this week I've found out I have a DVT in my hip/groin and bilateral pulmonary embolisms. I had been on the pill before my kids were born in 2010. Never had a side effect. I'm done with this thing!"
"AWFUL.  Google excessive bleeding on nuvaring.  This isn't spotting.  This is MONTHS of bleeding.  Very effective BC since I haven't had sex since I've used it.  Instead I'm depressed, anemic, and in extreme pain.  "go see a physician" - took 6 weeks to get in.  Removal can cause you to bleed for several more WEEKS.  This is the worst product ever to make it to market.  How could this be approved?  Any side effect like this on ANYTHING other than women's health would have been rejected."
"""I've been on BC since I was 16 and am now 37. I've only had the last 8-9 years off hormonal BC doing fertility awareness method due to thyroid disease, and believe me, it's NOT better. Maybe worse. Let me explain.
Having ""normal"" periods after having 2 children is a very humbling experience. Ok, after babies, it is expected. But once those initial hormones subsided and things went back to “normal”, it was absolute hell. The worst PMS. Cramping that was like contractions, heavy flows requiring me to stay home. Oh and did I mention the PMS? I want to kill everyone. Absolute rage and depression for up to 2 weeks before starting. I only have a 26 day cycle now, so I would literally be ovulating, on my period or PMSing the entire month. It is miserable.
Let's talk about ovulating. I track and abstaining from sex during high fertility days using an iPhone app. It works well. But here's the “side effects"" of that: I've never wanted sex more, and when you have two young kids, it's absolute torture. When I finally could have sex (and it was great!) then would start the “fear” for the next two weeks worrying that I would be pregnant. Then the PMS sets in and I act worse then I ever did on nuvaring. Oh yeah, and I get BV after each period anyway. I can't lose weight (did the nuvaring help me lose weight too?) so what's the point of the fertility awareness method? To have balanced hormones? Guess what ladies: they ain't balanced. I've been trying to balance them for the last 8 years. So here I go back on the nuvaring because I'd rather not worry about getting pregnant anymore, y'all. I'll be proactive and still take my supplements when I get nauseated, I'll take my 5HTP and L-theanine when I feel full of rage or anxiety. I'll take my probiotics to keep my vagina PH in balance. Just like I do WITHOUT being on the nuvaring."""
"Within 2 days after inserting it for the very first time I became so depressed I did not want to live anymore. I was convinced that my boyfriend did not want me and that I could not get through Christmas. I have been an absolute despair for the last two days crying constantly. It finally occurred to me that the only thing that had changed was I had put the Nuvaring in. I went and read the answer and a side effects about depression and took it out immediately. This is so not me and I hope I return to normal within a day or two."
"Okay so I've been on it for about three weeks. I didn't have any crazy side effects, but then I started to notice the itching on my lady parts, It would also got very irritated. So I finally took it out and I don't think I will be going back in it. Somehow I think I got an infection. ( been with my husband for 8 years )."
"This is my third month on NuvaRing and first time ever being in birth control and haven't had any major side effects. The first month I felt slightly nauseous the second and third day of being on the ring. Other than that it's been great! I take the ring out and two days later I have my period. No spotting or breast tenderness. So far I've had a great experience."
"I have been using the nuva ring for almost one month.. I understand they say birth control takes time for your body to adjust to but I couldn't handle the feelings with nuva ring and decided to take it out today.. I was on yaz for 9 yrs and never had any issues..I had no issues putting in or taking out nuva ring couldn't feel it was there and loved the idea of not having to take the pill everyday BUT the downsides..I felt SUPER emotional and depressed always feeling irritated and I'm generally a pretty happy person.. constant bloating (Feel like I already gained 5lbs) cramps and itchy and uncomfortable down there and difference in discharge (almost like BV or some kind of infectiom. My face/back broke out in acne too! Just took my nuva ring OUT!"
"I've been on Nuvaring since May and I love it. It regulated my periods after Depo made me bleed for 6 months. I get a little breast tenderness, but nothing that doesn't happen during a normal monthly cycle, without birth control. I still want to switch to something more long term, but if it doesn't work, I'll be back to the Nuvaring."
"I've used Nuva Ring 3 Times now.  I planned both of my children around it and took it out about 3 months before trying and had no problems conceiving.  I never had weight gain or mood changes.  I recommended it to everyone.  I loved it.  So naturally, as I just finished nursing my 2nd, I went back on it.  This passed month has been a nightmare.  I've been depressed, and honestly just plain crazy.   Mad at my husband for no reason and no sex drive. There was a week I couldn't fall asleep until 2am-5am.  Maybe my hormones have changed after having my son, but I will definitely be looking into something else."
"I'm really happy with the NuvaRing. I used to get awful PMS, terrible cramps, and ovarian cysts that would land me in the hospital. I used to think it was my Crohn's flaring, but by the time I got to the hospital-I would get my period. The pain was so severe. My periods were never regular since I was 14: I'm 28 now. I would get so emotional, moody, and scared all the time, because I never knew when it was coming. After coming across a fantastic OBGYN, she decided to put me on the ring. It's great! My periods are REGULAR. I did gain a little weight, but I figure its normal because of the hormones. It's a little tricky to get inside-patience is key. I'd like to go on a hormonal IUD, but this is working so well. I'm afraid to try anything else"
"I'm only on my third week of using NuvaRing. It's great not having to take a pill, I haven't taken it out yet to switch so we'll see how that goes. My mental processes have been completely wack since I've began using NuvaRing. I have no patience for anything anymore, I get so irritable and fight to keep it inside, it's been affecting those around me with my negativity. Prior to this I was overly positive, people would ask me how I smiled so much. Now I fight to smile. My anxiety is so high I lay awake at night and can't get my mind off it. No sex drive anymore and I can feel things with my boyfriend changing due to my irritability, anxiety, and no sex drive. I'd like to stick it out to see if this works but I don't know if I can handle this"
"I've used the ring for about 4 months & I can't wait to get rid of it. I have a very hard time removing the ring. I can never find it right away & I can barely reach it or grasp it to pull it out. I feel as if although it isn't supposed to go up into your cervix, mine is very difficult to find & is very weirdly far up there & to me this isn't normal. I freak out every time I have to remove it & I usually end up in a panic & bleeding. I also feel like it increases my anxiety & depression a ton! Especially the first few days after inserting. The only positive thing I have to say is that it is convenient to not take a pill every day. Otherwise, I will never be using it again."
"""I wish I could say I had a good experience with the nuva ring but I didn't. I was one of the unlucky ones who suffered through very severe symptoms the entire time. I had severe cramping/abdominal pain for the entirety of the time I was using the ring. They were so bad that I took time off from work because I could not stand up. I bled almost constantly the entire time, and it was very heavy spotting, heavier than I had ever had from a period before using the ring. I bled heavily during and after intercourse. 
After the cramps became unbearable and I could not stand bleeding as heavily as I was I decided to come off nuva ring. It took my body seven months to stop bleeding heavily. I had heavy periods for two weeks at a time as my body readjusted. And even now my periods last longer than they did before using the ring. I also have spotting in between periods, and I never had spotting before using the ring. 
I'm starting a new birth control, and I'm hoping my body goes back to normal soon."""
"I have been on the nuvaring for 3 months and have had a great experience.  For the first month I did have more mood swings and increased anxiety/depression, however I was in a bad situation so I think it just amplified it. Since then my body has adjusted and now my mental state is back where it was before. It can be tricky to insert but got better after some practice. I love not having to remember to take a pill every day, and although I get a bit of spotting before my period I do have a lighter flow and for only 4 days instead of 7. I don't have hormonal breakouts before my period and haven't had any issues with leaving it in during sex."
"""I've read many saying they have had a hard time with nuvaring under 3 months then stopped. It takes 3 months for the body to adjust I was told. So I kept using it and by the 4th month no mood swings or side effects. It's been a year and a half now I've had no break outs, no unnatural mood changes, a lighter menstruation but my drive has had decreased some that could be not being as active (busy life). I've gain no weight related to the ring and seen no weight change the 1st year on it.
I too have a history of depression for those that have a issue with birth control due to it. But like I've mention the first 3 months will effect your mood it's up to you if long term is worth it."""
"NuvaRing did do what is was supposed to which was prevent pregnancy. I personally liked the pill better than the ring. I was on NuvaRing for about 3 months and had to stop taking it because of the ridiculous mood swings I was having. I've always had heavy and long periods that last about 8 days but the NuvaRing seemed to extend them even longer, to about 10-12 days but they were lighter. It also seemed to increase cramping which was something I never had problems with before but it wasn't unbearable. Only issue was the mood swings that drove me absolutely insane lol. I wouldn't say it's the worst BC, but I definitely feel that there are better options. I guess it just wasn't for me, but everyone reacts differently."
"I have been on it for 8 years after two years of taking the pill. Honestly the best thing ever! I've had no side effects or weight gain (a part from the natural small weight gain with age). I have recommended it to many people over the years and many friends who have now been on it for years as well."
"""I love it!  I have been on it for 4 months now without any complications (yet)!  I have even skipped my period for one month without any spots or irregular blood saying hi.  I don't feel it during sex and my partner haven't felt it either.  
I used to be on the Pill before and the  transition was quite easy.  The only thing that annoyed me was that I got quite a few pimples the first  month,  but it got under control using good products and trying not to eat too much dairy products.  My skin is back to normal now.  
It feels so good not to think about remembering the pill every day!  Its just every 3 week!  I have an app on my phone to remind me when to take out."""
"Nuva ring has done its purpose in a very effective way to prevent pregnancy considering it prevents without having to remember to take it everyday. However, I have been over come with horrible anxiety. Anxiety has always been a problem for me but I was always able to manage with therapy and medicine for almost 5 years now. 2 months on the Nuva ring and I feel crazy. I'm paranoid, constantly making up scenarios and pretty much convincing myself they are true and not to mention I feel helpless. I am not a cryer but I cry everyday now. I'm also tired constantly and have experienced pretty intense headaches and a lower sex drive. My friends and family have told me as well that I seem off. I took it out today in hopes of getting better."
"Took this for three months but had to stop. Reasons I didn't like it: My partner could feel it EVERY time we had sex. Stinging during and after sex. My boobs were always sore and heavy. Headaches. Bloated constantly. Itching. Depression. Anxiety. When the anxiety got so bad that I couldn't sleep at night I took it out and felt much better within 2 days. Wish it would have worked for me because I don't like taking a pill everyday."
"The Nuvaring personally helped me because I was on the depo shot for about 7 months and I gained so much weight and constantly wanted to eat. Once I got off of the shot I decided I'd try the ring because someone I knew has been on it for years. Once I got on it, I started seeing progress after working out and dieting . It does decrease your sex drive but I don't really care"
"""The Nuva ring is awesome
For me. I can control my periods. I haven't gain a massive amount of weight. I've been on it for 4 months now. Only Con: it's a bit uncomfortable during the beginning of intercourse. But the pain leaves after a few minutes(really minor discomfort)"""
"Okay so I used NV when I was a late teen with no complications whatsoever.  I'm 32 year old now and just recently started back on it again after my c-section. This has been the worst birth control experience of my life. I've used it for 3 weeks and ended up with horrible headaches, extreme cramping in my stomach for a week now non stop, feeling delusional and very irritable with no sex drive what so ever when before taking this I've always had a very high sex drive.  I've been breastfeeding and flow isn't all that good anymore, but worst of all, I have found myself so hard on myself and so depressed and its been beyond my control. Felt like I needed to seek help. After reading about side effects I have figured out where the problem was coming from. No more NV 4 me."
"""I enjoy this birth control. I was apprehensive to using it because of the reviews, but it's kind of luck when it comes to taking any form of birth control. I went with nuvaring because my my mom used it and said she had no side effects. A bit of background info: we both suffer from severe depression. 
I've been using it for two months. There are only a few effects I've experienced: breast growth, a few weeks light period, increase in sex drive, maybe motion sickness. The long period comes from me trying to cheat the system and insert it early to end my period on the 4th week, which is safe. I think all it did was slow it down. With the motion sickness, I don't know if it's the BC, but I experience car sickness when I drive now."""
"Do not use this form of birth control! I have had it for 2 months and I've taken it out after a week each time due to increased blood pressure, anxiety, depression, and insomnia. I've been on the pill and had depo no issues in the past. Worst form of birth control I've experienced. Save yourself the trouble and DO NOT USE THIS!"
"This has been a horrific 3 months for me. Let me start by saying I have gained about 15 lbs in 3 months and my breasts have grown 2 cup sizes. They are tender, to the point where hugging my boyfriend hurts. I am extremely athletic and just couldn't understand why suddenly I couldn't work-out. I have no energy, I've been drinking triple the amount of caffeine that I usually do. My biggest change was a COMPLETE loss in my sex drive. I've barely touched my boyfriend in 3 months. I am moody, emotional, feel drained all the time and literally hate myself. I read all these reviews, ran to the bathroom and took it out! I do not recommend this to anyone!"
"After my second baby, I was having problems with pain during sex (9 months  to a year post partum). My doctor prescribed the nuvaring to treat that issue as well as provide some birth control. The first two weeks I had this in were a dream! No side effects, nothing negative. After that I was so nauseous I was constantly  taking zofran and reglan and could barely function. After 6 weeks I had lost 10 pounds and decided to take it out. I wish it wouldn't have been so bad or I would have stuck it out."
"I had severe headache and mood swings elevated high blood pressure..so much pain. In my ovaries. I'm over 43. Doctor recommended birth control because I deal with hormone changes every month my body breaks down. Specially before my menstrual cycle. I was diagnosed with PMDD and severe blood clots every month. My daughter deals with it and now,  I'm afraid for my granddaughter. I'm close to have cancer for 3rd time. Whatever you decide what kind of birth control you will use. Do if blood work first before you start using birth control...make sure you're healthy before you'd use the birth control it might cause defect in your body. In the future."
"The worst thing I could have ever put in my body. Nuvaring made me so nauseated I was throwing up for 2 weeks straight. If you have a small cervix this is not for you the damn thing is like the size of my uterus. i literally had to have my boyfriend put it in for me because my fingers were too short. This also caused irritation to my inner labia upon insertion and if u have nails you will end up cutting yourself down there. I took it out after 3 weeks of absolute hell. It was unmanageable "
"The nuvaring has been OK for me with the exception of making me feel like I have an UTI on and off. It has dramatically increased vaginal discharged and causes some itchiness. I think this is what leads to the bladder irritation that feels like a UTI. I've also gotten some headaches and noticed some bloating around my abdomen. All in all I am probably going off of the ring. I'm scared of any birth control at this point. They all have side effects."
"Great birth control that was easy convenient. All I did was just put it in for three weeks, forget about it, and then take it out after the three weeks is up. Sometimes I would have to take it out during sex, although other than that I did not experience any discomfort or it slipping out. This birth control did not make me gain any weight except for my boobs. I did experience vaginal dryness and extreme decrease in my sex drive, which really made sex unpleasurable at times. This birth control made me extremely tired all the time. I would just sleep for hours on and had little to no energy. I am currently off this bc due to that side effect. Caused me to have cystic acne after 5 months."
"Hey! I am super on top of things and birth control pills were still not my thing. I suffered from dryness and irritation. Worst of all  I lost my sex drive. I started the NuvaRing because its simple yet effective. I only have had it for a bit now and I have 0 dryness.  I love it!"
"""I have been on the Nuva Ring for exactly a year and I have stopped it for good. It is definitely very convenient, however I developed severe mood swings and anxiousness while on this form of birth control. I am a very positive/motivated person with absolutely no history of anxiety or depression. After being on this, I would catch myself crying for absolutely no reason, especially while drinking alcohol! I also lost about 10-15 pounds. I am about to start ""Lolo"" which is advertised as a lower dosage. 
Pros: Lost weight, regulated acne, low maintenance
Cons: Increased anxiety and emotions"""
"I was on nuvaring for 8 months. Starting in January, it was great, I was mostly acne free and wasn't having too many mood swings. At about June, my acne became cystic, extremely painful and I could barely move my face without pain. I gained 20 lbs and could not lose it with dieting and working out. I took it out two days ago because I'm positive that things will change."
"My skin was clear & I didn't get pregnant or gain weight but I got severely depressed & anxious on the pill. Then when I went off of it my hair started falling out in chunks & hasn't stopped... that was 8 months ago... don't recommend"
"Used it for years when I was a teenager, never had problems. Went off it for a few years, felt like it was important to give the hormones a break/let my body reset, balance itself out. Went back on it (I'm 26 now). Only been back on it for a little over 6 months-- this 2nd time around hasn't been so awesome. Makes my periods lighter/shorter/less crampy which is convenient, but I'm tired of the dryness/itching/discharge. My vagina is some level of irritated/inflamed/bothered, pretty much 24/7. Sexdrive lower, and some anxiety/nervousness/depression (tho its hard to tell if its 100% because of the ring). Headaches/nausea, can't have sex without lube. Nice to be able to have unprotected sex, but only if you can enjoy it. Not ovulating is weird"
"I only lasted 6 weeks on the nuvaring. I experienced several side effects. Vaginal discomfort, headaches, ache, depression, fatigue, mild nausea, complete loss of sex drive, and a weird sense of feeling unbalanced, but not quite dizzy. I also experienced an uncommon side effect where my cervix became so swollen I thought my uterus was prolapsing. After 3 weeks I started spotting. I switched it out at 4 weeks for a new ring and had breakthrough bleeding. I finally decided to just take it out because my swollen cervix was really freaking me out and I'm now on day 20 of a messed up period. I passed a large amount of tissue a couple days ago and had a ruptured cyst this morning. Neither of those have ever happened to me before."
"""I was on NR for 3 yrs the first time (mid 20s) and I absolutely loved it. It was SO convenient to only think about my birth control 2x a month instead of daily. I did not experience any side effects or weight gain, and my periods were light and short (only 3 days by the end).
Now, 10 years later (mid 30s) I am back on NR. It has been 6 months and unfortunately, I have noticed I get very emotional the week before my period. I will cry over the most insignificant things and I am moody and angry to the point that I can hardly control my temper, even in professional situations at work. I am generally a happy person and have never had these kinds of issues before. Reluctantly, I must quit NR :( Best wishes everyone."""
"""Personally I LOVE nuvaring. I hated the pill could never remember to take it. With the ring leave it in 3 wks or 3wks n 2 days take it out for 4 days allow myself to spot to make sure I'm still good and put it back in. Dr told me I didn't even need to do that.  I can leave it in for 4wks bc I didn't need my cycle regulated I just didn't want the menstrual cycle or pains lol. I can pick and choose if or when I want a cycle - I love that freedom. Hardly felt it at all. It has only come out during sex twice. Great concept.
CONS 1st time putting it in disaster lol. Even now after 5yr being on it I have slight trouble here and there putting it in bc I'm dry. Sex drive decreased. Angry ALL THE TIME it seems like. Depression spells. Issues with my contacts"""
"I've been on nuvaring for several years and I absolutely love it. I insert a ring every 3 weeks for 3 months then take it out for 1 week to allow a period. This is what my doctor suggested and I was all for having only 4 periods a year. The only side effect I have are mild leg cramps that Motrin can take care of. This is a very effective birth control. It does become a little hard sometimes to insert or take out the ring but you can always have your partner help you."
"I started to notice a pattern that the day I would insert it, for the next 24 hrs following insertion, I was incredibly naeusous, but I dealt with it. The reason I ultimately got off of it was because after 7 months of severe anxiety, mood swings, and angry outburst with no explanation, I figured out that it could potentially be my Nuva Ring. I'm a 23 yr old, active student/teacher. I lost all motivation to get through the day or go to the gym. I constantly picked fights with loved ones, and I was so hard on myself and my personal appearance. I turned into someone I wasn't. Was going to therapy 2 times a week for 4 months, trying to figure out what triggered my anxiety. Got off of NR once I put 2 and 2 together. Finally back to my normal self."
"I have been using the Nuvaring for a few months now. In this time I lost my virginity and it was extremely painful and I had no sex drive. I figured the pain was just from the first time but the pain continued every time I had intercourse and I rarely even wanted to have sex; because it hurt and I had no sex drive. My boobs have grown a size and I have gained approximately 10 pounds. I thought there was something wrong with my body and the low sex drive was a symptom of depression. After reading the reviews I feel so relieved to know there's nothing wrong with me. I've decided to switch birth controls, however other than those side effects, the nuvaring has kept me from getting pregnant and regulated my period"
"The NuvaRing at first was odd for me bc iIwas scared it was going to fall out, but if it is pushed inside it should stay in place and still work. I'm very active and I've had no problems with this. At first I did have some light bleeding and more recently I've have light brown discharge, but I've read that this is completely normal and that the nuvaring is still working. I have experienced some bloating and headaches easily but it's usually around a certain time of the month. my sex drive seems fine, it might have gone away for a few weeks but that could have also been due to stress. (FYI my doctor told me to keep it in for 4 weeks, bc I am using it for birth control and not to regulate my periods)"
"""I have been on nuvaring for about 6 years. 
PROS: I've never gotten pregnant. My boobs went up 2 cup sizes. its not uncomfortable at all. It regulated my period. Much easier than the pill, you put it in, then you can forget about it for 3 weeks. But the BEST THING for me was that it cleared my acne. 
CONS: I am moody, more depressed, will cry for any little thing. I have always been 110 pounds my whole life with tiny fluctuations now I'm heading towards 125 pounds! No sex drive at all. Broke up with my boyfriend of 5 years because we never had sex. It gives me constant BV and daily vaginal discharge which is the worst side effect to me. 
I have decided to stop it. I'm sick of having BV, and I don't want to gain any more weight."""
"I just started the nuvaring last month, my first 3 weeks on it were awesome. I had the implant in my arm for 2 1/2 years and bled all the time so I decided to try the nuvaring. My first month was the best! I didn't gain any weight (I weigh in daily), I was a little moody (but I'm naturally pretty moody/emotional anyways), and the constant irregular bleeding was stopped and regulated within days on it. The only downside of it for me was I started getting headaches from it - easily cured with water and Advil! Another issue I had was my doctors didn't describe how to remove it/location so I was panicking about that but it was easy once I figured it out! Just set it and forget it for 3 weeks - I love it!!!"
"I was on the NuvaRing for almost 2 years before discontinuing due to side effects. At first, it was very convenient and I did not gain any weight. Over time though, I started to experience worse and worse heart palpitations, dizziness, anxiety and paranoia. I noticed these symptoms would intensify the day I took my NuvaRing out. I have been off it for about a year and I feel much better."
"So I was on the nuvaring for less than 1 week. I think it's been only 4 days, I just took it out for good. The first day everything was fine, the second day I experienced the worst itch in my vagina, I mean terrible. I've never had a yeast infection, and this is my first time trying birth control. It also made my vagina extremely dry. Sex did not really hurt but was hardly enjoyable BC I was not wet at all, and he said he pushed it back up there for me during sex.. Don't recommend this method of birth control at all, and I'm really not sure where to go from here, as I am very wary of all the hormonal side effects of all methods of birth control. I am very disappointed and do not want to ever experience this kind of discomfort again."
"It is great not to have to take a pill, but the ring comes out all the time! I have to fix it twice a day usually. I've been to the doctor and she said I'm fine, it just happens with people sometime. It's so annoying! Why would they make it a ring shape?! It's such a poorly designed product. Women aren't meant to have ring shaped things in their vaginas! Make it a cylindrical shape, like a tampon."
"It's ok but I started to develop a yeast infection after two weeks"
"I was on NuvRing for 3 years. At first, I loved it. Not having to worry about it and being able to skip periods was amazing. About 2 years in, my sex drive was non-existent. After, I stopped it came right back. It also was painful having sex while I was on it. I definitely experienced the hair loss with it. I did experience weird symptoms taking it out as well. My nipples were sore to the touch, and constant bloating. I also gained a lot of weight coming off, 13 lbs in 2 weeks. It was easier to lose weight about 2 months after stopping. Overall, it wasn't a horrible experience. But, I would not try it again!"
"Okay so just be aware everyone experiences things differently and our bodies are all different. So I was on the Nuva ring for 3-4 weeks and at first I experienced a lot of cramping and discomfort during sex. I had no sex drive and I ended up getting a yeast infection the last week having it in. Currently I feel as though I have a UTI. I like that I don't have to worry about it for 3 weeks and it'll help regulate my periods. Unfortunately lately I've been super moody and emotional that I want to cry about every little thing. I personally can't feel it but my husband can during sex and it kinda freaks him out"
"I had high hopes for this birth control. Heard a lot of great things... And then I tried it myself. 17 days is all I have lasted. Today is Day 17. I'm 37. I already have issues with depression and acne and have heard good things from other's who had normally suffered from these things and that the ring changed their life. Well, Day 17 and I can't stop crying. I've been beyond depressed in weird stages. I've had a headache that has lasted over a week. And I have a handful of new cystic acne in weird places beyond my face. Placement was fine and I rarely felt it. Can't wear tampons with it. Not weird during sex either, except I haven't had an orgasm for two weeks! And this is my experience... Good luck, I know everyone is different...."
"This method is great for those who forget or don't like to take pills. However, it may completely eliminate your sex drive. I don't think about it, I don't dream about it. My husband is hot and I just look at him like "what do you want for dinner?"  I had a pretty high libido before Nuva ring. Anyway, these drugs effect people differently so just know This is a possibility."
"I love this birth control. I don't really have any issues with it except if I try to skip my period when I haven't done that in a while. Just be consistent with it. Fantastic."
"First couple days it worked out okay, I had a headache here or there and was pretty moody but other than that it was okay. I loved not having to remember a pill every day and I couldn't feel it at first. However around day 4 on it I got a yeast infection from hell. Before the Nuvaring I only had one yeast infection in my whole life and Monistat cleared it up without a problem. I used Monistat to treat the one I got from the Nuvaring and it itched like crazy and felt like I had pepper sprayed my own vagina.. needless to say I'm switching back to the pill."
"""I have been on Nuvaring since I was 15, now I am 24 and I've only been on Nuvaring. I've enjoyed this product BUT I can say it has changed my mood and I have no sex drive. I've been with my boyfriend for 8 years and I just get angry at him for no reason. For years I thought I was mentally ill but I have finally realized it's my Nuvaring. Most people post on here have recently started using it, of almost 10 years of using this I can say it's a love/hate relationship. 
Pros: It does its job! 
Cons: Mood swings, headaches, and no sex drive. 
I am looking into nexplanon, but scared to turn out into a crazed fiend and put more strain on my relationship. I've been irregular all my life so I don't know with a new bc."""
"I was on the pill before Nuva Ring and the pill made me moody and cry a lot. I'm definitely not one to be emotional. So I tried Nuva Ring now 8 months later I still love it. I really like that I can put it in and forget it for a month. I can skip periods if I want. Although I've found I can 2 months without a period but then I have to do the period thing so I don't get breakthrough bleeding. I'm also very much in control if I decided one day I didn't want it anymore I'd just take it out. I haven't had any weight gain. When I do get my period it's short and light. The only con I had was I lost sex drive for about 5 months.  It's returned though so I'm happy. Everyone is different but I'd highly suggest giving Nuva Ring a try!"
"Inserting and retrieving the nuva ring takes some getting used to but after a few tries, you'll get the hang of it. The side effects, however, were so overwhelming I stopped using the nuva ring after 2 months.  The positives were I didn't have to think about it everyday and normally I have acne but on nuva ring I didn't experience break outs. The negatives were my mood. I was irritable, depressed and cranky after about a week on the ring. Generally I'm mild tempered,  sweet and forgiving. Not on nuva ring. I was overly emotional; crying, yelling, grumpy, annoyed. It was affecting my quality of life so I removed it. I've been off of it for over a week now and feel like my goofy playful self again.  I'll never go back. Its not worth it."
"""Some of you females here are so uneducated about the NuvaRing. It effects people differently. Don't fear another female from getting contraceptive just because you didn't know how to take care of yourself. 
- You take it out before having sex. That way it is not irritating you when you have sex.
- you insert the ring so that it loops around your cervix. That way it doesn't fall out.
-your mood swings can be managed with other medication. Learn to calm down & not respond. 
-Everyone has had acne. 
My review.
I'm naturally a bitchy person who lacks emotion. I had no issue properly inserting the ring. I also downloaded an app reminder. I feel more happy & personable. I maybe losing weight also. I feel secure having an easy form of bc."""
"I started having irregular periods when I started taking other medicine and sometimes I wouldn't have a period or I would bleed for 7-10 days. My doctor suggested I try birth control and after hearing all the options I chose the Nuvaring. I am glad that I did. Since starting, my cycle has been like clock work. I put the Nuvaring in for 3 weeks, remove and few days later my period starts. When I put it back in the next week my period stops. I love it and although I don't really need it for birth control it is a great way to make your irregular cycles regular again."
"Please keep in mind when reading these reviews that every person is different and every experience with medication is unique. I have been on Nuvaring for a little over 1 year. I loved it for the convenience of not needing to remember to take a pill daily. However, I did notice the "belly bloat" about 6-7 months into taking it. I was almost concerned I was pregnant. I have always been lean, and I'm in my mid 20s. My weight and size are fairly consistent. Now, I'm at 12 months in (definitely not pregnant by the way) and I finally am noticing an overall weight gain in addition to my belly bloat. Total, about 10-15 lbs. I loved this method but my self confidence is suffering, so I am stopping (and hoping I see a change, as I am very active!)."
"""To make this review easy I'll share a list of the Pros and Cons that I have experienced on the NuvaRing while being on it for 5 years.
Pros: very light periods with minimal cramping (although I am lucky enough that my periods beforehand were already pretty light but my cramps were horrible), super easy to use, can skip your period if you want to, insurance covered it, you barely know it's in there, can take it out for up to 3 hours while having sex.
Cons: ZERO sex drive, moodiness, constant bloating, constant tiredness, cravings, weight gain, my vagina has actual become swollen after sex, sometimes painful sex.
Everyone is different but the cons are outweighing the pros for me at this point so I am looking for a different option immediately"""
"""Bilateral Pulmonary Emboli directly due to Nuvaring use. 
Misdiagnosed by first couple physicians and sent directly to ER after another physician recognized the signs of a potential blood clot. I was extremely active, had a great career, and never thought something like this would happen to me. I really liked the Nuvaring for a variety of reasons, but nothing is worth dying for. This came very close to killing me and I had to make big changes to my life after my blood clots. Weigh Risks and Benefits with more than 1 physician, and look for alternatives!!!"""
"So far so good. It has been about three weeks. Only real symptoms have been a decrease libido and weight loss (I've been eating the same amounts/foods and haven't increased exercise but have lost 2-3 pounds)"
"I decided to take the nuvaring because I'm an insane freak on the pill.  At first I did notice being moody, crying, along with some weird discharge or itching down there. But after a week the it subsided.  My moods are now normal.  I barely feel it inside.  My boob size definitely has increased and my weight is still fine in fact the 5lbs I put on I definitely needed. It's only the first month of use so I definitely have to wait and see how it goes but overall I do love it.  I absolutely hated the pill and how it made me feel and the Nuvaring is nothing like that."
"I tried all a few different birth controls that were available to me. I did not have many options being as I am anemic and bled alot during my menstrual cycle. I ended up pregnant on a few methods. My doctor recommended nuvaring. It was fairly new. I had a few mood swings, which was different than my regular monthly moodiness. I am doing pretty good on it since 2002. I had a few kids since then. All I did was leave it out and two months later we were expecting. Regulated my cycles, hormones.. Really feel in control of my body. And comfortable with myself. Recently recommended it to my adult daughter. Hope it helps her she has had problems with other methods also."
"Been on it four weeks. Like the option to skip a menstrual cycle. My experience so,far is good. I decided to skip my cycle last week just to see how it would feel. Didn't miss it one bit. Love that option. Didn't miss the maxi pads or the mess a cycle can leave in my underwear.  I have an increased sex drive too.  Think, I might even skip my cycle during the summer unless my GYN decides things need to come out after my ordeal three weeks ago."
"I stopped taking birth control pills because of the hassle of remembering to take them. My doctor recommended Nuvaring due to the convenience of using it and being a busy college student. However, two months after using it I had MAJOR abdominal cramps to the point where I couldn't walk. Turns out I had endometriosis and had to have surgery, it was not Nuvaring's fault. I was instructed to switch it out every 3 weeks instead of 4 to skip my periods; however, I have yet skipped a period and it has been 3 months since my surgery. I bleed for 2-3 weeks every time. I am switching birth controls to something more stronger since that is what my doctor recommended. Other than that, no other side effects at all."
"""I had severe cramping on my first day and Googled only to discover I wasn't alone. It felt like the worst period cramps ever & I'm no wimp...two healthy boys of my own. Some reviews said 9 months later!! One woman said it was a daily experience and had to take pain killers!! I didn't hestitate. Out it went and instant relief.
I do not recommend this method at all."""
"I've been on nuvaring for about 2 years now and I recommend it to all my friends.  I didn't experience any mood swings or weight gain. But my boobs went up a cup size.   It's super easy to put in and take out and I never forget to take it because it's already there! 3 weeks and then out one week for a period and then repeat. It sometimes falls out from sex but you have 3 hours to put it back in. My boyfriend doesn't feel it at all. You should definitely try it. Nothing but great results for me."
"I was so excited for this birth control and now I can't wait to get it out of my system.  Only 2 weeks in and already have a yeast infection, major  anxiety, feeling depressed and a loss of sex drive.... I'm miserable and can literally cry at any moment. I will never try this again."
"""First 2 weeks emotionally draining. Uncontrollable mood swings. Breast enlargement, up two cup sizes. Bloating. Weight gain. Nightmares. Cravings.
Going on my third week, crazy mood swings have stopped, still up two cup sizes, bloating is going down, no weight gain. Nightmares rare. No cravings. 
I eat healthy and exercise  daily. So the bloating is frustrating but I see it lessens as days pass. The mood swings were scary but it started the first week and it's over now. Thank God. I keep in mind it's a big hormonal change for my body and I'm hopeful the side effects completely stop when my body gets used to it. 
I'm giving it 2 mths."""
"I have been on Nuvaring for approximately 2 years now. I like that it regulates my menstrual cycle, it's comfortable once it's inserted. I occasionally have it slip it out but not a lot. It stays in tact during intercourse, my partner doesn't feel it and effective. There is also an app to use to help you keep up with when it is time to insert it and take it out. The app also helps me know when my period is coming."
"""This is only my 3rd week with the Nuvaring, but I like it very much! I seem to have all of the good side-effects and none of the bad ones. I find it does not make me emotional, which was my major problem with the pill. It has made my skin very clear and acne free and my breasts are bigger. I did notice that my vagina smelled a bit odd the first 3 days, but I think my body just had to get used to something new. 
I had bad experiences with the pill, the Mirena IUD and the copper IUD so I am very happy to now have something that works."""
"I took the pill last year & stopped it because I was emotional all the time & felt like I had put on weight from it. I decided to try the nuvaring even tho I knew it had the same hormones. It was 10x worse than the pill. I was an emotional wreck, extremely tired all the time, & always hungry. Not to mention it was scary taking it out the first time. I tend to be nervous about doing something like that but it was just awful. I don't recommend this. & I'm never getting back on it."
"I've been on the NuvaRing for almost 4 years with very few issues. I've never had a pregnancy scare but have had a few issues with bleeding/spotting in between periods especially if I leave the ring in for 4 weeks and try to skip my period. Now I follow the 28 day cycle (leave it in for 3 weeks, take it out for 1 week then put a new one in) and have no issues. I have never had issues with mood swings, weight gain etc. If you pay attention and use the ring in the way that's best with your body (leaving it in and skipping your period or taking it out and having your period) you shouldn't have any issues."
"So I put the ring in on the first day of my period, 2 days later my period stopped and I am feeling nauseous, very tired, lost in appetite, and some discharge. I knew it was just my hormones changing so I knew it was going to pass. Within the three weeks I started to notice how much I was sleeping, mood changes, weight gain, and feeling completely horrible about myself. On the 21st day I took the ring out and a day later I have an unbearable itch/ burn. I went to the doctors and they believe it was from my hormones changing. The ring is very effective I've had intercourse plenty of times with no complications like pregnancy or UTI, etc. I will not be putting the ring back in bc the hormones and side effects are too much for me to handle."
"This was my first birth control method and I'm never going back on it ever again. Nuva Ring messed with my emotions to the max. It was always two very different extremes- I felt really really good or freaking awful. And when it was awful, I mean it was awful. I cried over the littlest things and everything and anything made me angry and I couldn't control it. It didn't even make me gain weight but it just made me feel so ugly about myself. My boobs grew which was nice but that doesn't even outweigh all the bad about it."
"I really wanted to give this medicine a chance but I can't do it anymore after just a few hours. Within two hours I felt so tired, I laid down for a nap. My right arm went numb, then I woke up with my whole body numb. Got up to walk to the bathroom and felt light-headed. Now it is six hours later and I feel angry and agitated, like I hate my family. I feel like leaving everything behind. I was perfectly fine this morning. I ended up flushing the thing down the toilet! This thing has only made me feel like rubbish, and I would just rather NOT have sex than use anything like this again!"
"I ran out of my prescription and hadn't been on the Nuva ring for months. I started back on it two weeks ago and I've been an emotional wreck ever since. My boyfriend even noticed how weird it was that I was happy all the time when I wasn't on birth control and since I started back on it I've been upset and crying every day. I feel so bad for him having to deal with me because the smallest thing will set me off and then I'm just irrationally angry. I hate feeling this way. Going to have to go back to the doctor to get a different bc."
"Being 18 years old and choosing a birth control method for the first was a very scary thing to do especially when I have a horrible memory taking pills everyday but my doctor gave me a variety and I thought nuvaring would be a good idea to start off. Ever since I started I love it! I was so scared due to the horrible reviews but honestly nuvaring was the best choice I could've pick! I love how it's a monthly process, no pills needed and you have control of taking it in and out. I had no problem with side effects I feel happy, I really recommend this birth control method!"
"So, I have had nuvaring for a one 1/2 months now and so far it's been 100x better than nexplanon (in terms of how my body has reacted). No acne, no mood swings, no weight gain. However, one thing that has happened to me since almost day one is a massive growth in my breasts and they are beyond tender. I can't even gently bump them without there being soreness. At first I was worried I was pregnant, but nope! It's just the birth control. I'm hoping it will stop or go away, I don't have bras that fit me since they've grown 2 cup sizes, and well they hurt too :/ another thing is bloating, my weight is the same, however I never have the normal stomach that I've always had, it's like I've eaten a loaf of bread always. I hope it goes away!"
"I have been on Nuva ring for quite a few years I though it was great and loved that I didn't have to think about taking a pill but as the years have went by I'm noticing I'm not myself still getting chest pain and leg pain tired all the time no patience, no libido very emotional not sure what to do. I don't do well with hormones but this ring is giving me UTI's and yeast inventions - I hate birth control"
"I was put on Nuvaring after trying several different pills that didn't work for me (weight gain, irritability, headaches) and the Nuvaring has been amazing! I did gain about 5-10 pounds and my boobs got bigger, but it was worth it because I didn't have many other side effects. The first month I cramped a bit, but it gets better! To insert the ring, I take out the cotton from a tampon and put the Nuvaring in the tampon applicator and insert it that way and it's so much easier than trying to manipulate the ring with your hands. I recommend the Nuvaring to all of my friends that are miserable on the pill"
"I've been on this Birth Control for about 2 years, I just recently stopped it in the middle of my 3 week cycle of it (I got my period 2 days after I took it out so beware). When I first started this I felt anxious a lot and always moody, definitely didn't have any libido what so ever. Also I gained so much weight, and I exercise and ate pretty decent where I shouldn't gain 30lbs all together. When it was about a year into the ring I gained about 15lbs then I stopped it for 2 months lost a few pounds easy and then put myself back on it and gained 30lbs. I really don't like it and don't plan to go back on it....it's funny when I stopped I lost 5lbs the next day."
"I was put on the Nuvaring for a dual purpose; birth control & ensuring I have a cycle since I normally don't (PCOS). The first few months were ok. I noticed a little lethargy and some mood swings, but not bad. However, by about month 6, I had two yeast infections that I couldn't cure. I also noticed that I was quicker to anger & mildly depressed. Started having Migraines and sharp pains in my abdomen. Complete loss of libido hit me about month 7, and that's when I decided to quit. Left it out for 2 months, decided to give it another try. Went into the deepest, darkest depression of my life. Went to see my therapist, upon finding out I was on the ring she said it's known to cause it. Took it out, in one day felt tons better. Never again!!"
"In the past year, I've tried 7 different birth controls. Pills, patches...you name it, I've been on it. I've never had any true issues with any weight gain on BC, but I am very prone to yeast infections. I got them almost every other week. After switching to the ring, I haven't had any and it's been FANTASTIC! I'd definitely recommend this!"
"Honestly, it is a pretty effective birth control but it does have some nasty side effects. I've been using it for over 6 months and have had no pregnancy scares. After reading reviews I asked my husband if thought I have been depressed since I started taking it and he said yes without hesitation. So that is definitely a downside to the Nuvaring. The biggest issue for me is that I've probably gained 40 lbs since I started and I've been the same weight for years. I have stretch marks all over my body. It is so awful. I knew weight gain was possible but this has been the worst side effect for me. As nice as it is to not have to think about birth control more than once a month, I am going to stop. I don't want to keep gaining weight like this"
"I've tried the nuva ring before 5yrs ago before I had my daughter then after having her I got the implanon in my arm. I had so many complications with that so I switched back to the nuva ring after being off of it for a whole year. I didn't have any problem with the nuva ring when I used it before but... the second time is killing me! I have severe headaches, breast tenderness, and I'm tired all the time. My periods are heavy and my cramps are unbearable but my periods are shorter. I like it cause of the fact that you put it in and forget it , take it out and have your period, put it back in and repeat. I just can't take all the side effects I want to get rid of it but it's the only one that works for me as far a convince at this time."
"Giving it two stars because it does serve its purpose- birth control.  But it's so not worth the side effects I had for the first week after putting it in place. I had horrifying dreams on the 3rd night and woke up in terror. I was mostly depressed and hated people around me. I was easily irritated by small things. I was negative and wanted to be alone. After noticing the change in my mood I took it out five days later. Just in half a day, I have noticeable improvement in my mood. I wanted to be around my friends again. I'm happier. I wouldn't recommend this form of birth control to any of my friend."
"I thought since I had such a horrible experience I would write a review. So I did give it a 2 out of ten just because I didn't get pregnant an entire year on this medicine, so it is technically effective and also is convenient. But the side effects were just not worth it. I literally turned into a crazy person.  No libido. I was so unbelievably depressed for months and it came on slowly so I didn't really notice how bad it was until I hit rock bottom. I would cry for hours about nothing. I almost broke up with my boyfriend of 6 years because I was so depressed and I didn't understand why I was so unhappy. Bad experience for me. Not worth it, in my opinion but everyone is different !"
"""My doc prescribed Nuvaring because I would like to use something that does not give me a stomach ache and also simple to use. So at the 5 days, I felt the happiest woman ever.  I consider myself a very happy person but after 10 days using it, It's been a daily conflict within myself. I feel sad, lonely, hopeless, worthless, and ugly. I also gain some weight.  Yesterday I finally take of it. I hope I feel better very soon. 
I DO NOT RECOMMEND"""
"I started the Nuvaring about two weeks ago. And for the first couple of days I felt nothing. I loved it and thought it was going to be a smooth experience. Well I was wrong. I soon begin to once in a while feel headaches and lots of tiredness. Then I did not feel myself at all. I felt like I had no feelings whatsoever to anyone at all. It was making me not even want to have sex at all so what was the point of even getting on it?? Even my mom and boyfriend said I didn't seem myself. I was super moody and kind of depressed. I took the ring out last night and I already feel better and back to my happy self. Do not recommend"
"I am on day 4 of using the Nuvaring and I am ready to take it out. It has caused me severe anxiety, mood swings, uncontrollable crying, severe panic attacks. It is awful! 10/10 DO NOT RECOMMEND"
"I switched to nuvaring 4 yeas ago from orthotricyclen. I've had absolutely no side effects, and it's the easiest form of birth control I've ever taken. My periods are lighter is the only thing I've noticed. It's unfortunate that I'm seeing so many bad experiences on here - I honestly recommend it to all my girlfriends."
"This is the best method for me! Regulates my period and I don't have severe menstrual cramps. It does come out sometimes during sex but you can leave it out up to 3 hours which is a plus. It's very effective!!!"
"At first, I was on Tri-Lo-Sprintec. I took those pills for a month but was advised by my gyn to switch bc because I started to get blurred vision and migraine headaches. I switched to the nuvaring and have been using it for a week and I am already noticing side effects. First, while I am not feeling depressed or anxious, I have noticed that I am a little more easily angered. The smallest things have been getting under my skin. The side effect I notice is lack of appetite. I have always LOVED food and this week even the thought of food is blah. I'll get hungry but after a few spoonfuls, I am unable to eat anymore. Its early to really know how I feel about the nuvaring but I will definitely give updates!"
"""In was prescribed Nuvaring because I wasn't sure if I was ready for an IUD yet so my doctor thought Nuvaring would be a good alternative. 
The only positive experience I had was putting it in. Easy. Didn't have to think about it anymore. Until about 24 hours later.
All of a sudden a ton of symptoms hit me at once. Complete loss of appetite. Nausea. Vomiting. Pain in my legs. Pain in my abdomen. Headaches. Dizziness. Vision changes. 
Turns out, I'm allergic to Nuvaring. I immediately took it out; over a month later and I'm still having some symptoms.
Definitely make sure you read the possible side effects before using the ring, even if you've taken birth control before!"""
"""I've been on Nuvaring for about 6 months now 
Pros:
Convenient, easy to remember (hormones can last up to 5wks) not a lot of breast tenderness, breasts got bigger, no TERRIBLE mood swings (much less than when I was on Trinessa/Glidess.. but still a little more moody than usual), didn't get pregnant
Cons: 
INSANE mood swings during PMS, I've gained about 15 pounds without any change in exercise/diet and I've stayed between 110-115 my entire life (I'm now 130??), was convinced I had an STD because I was getting UTIs after intercourse (I don't), sometimes its hard to put in, has fallen out a couple of times. I like it, but it's not great and I cannot stand the weight gain. 
Will be switching to the skyla IUD"""
"I used nearing for about 5 weeks. I loved it for the first 2 weeks then my guy started to notice a big change in my moods. I was very depressed , anxious and I cried all the time..not to mention the lack of libido sucks. My friends also noticed a big change in my moods.. I took stopped using it a few hours ago and I feel a bit calmer already...."
"""I've had an almost entirely positive experience. It regulated my periods and made them short and light, cleared up my acne, and has effectively prevented pregnancy. Only 2 drawbacks have been frequent headaches and daily discharge (inconvenient, but not a huge deal). The monthly schedule is super convenient and I've never had an issue with it falling out or my boyfriend feeling it. 
I'm trying out a new birth control to try and get the headaches under control, but if I don't respond well to it, I'm happy to go back to Nuvaring and Advil. I'd recommend it to anyone."""
"""POSITIVE REVIEW - I have been on the Nuvaring for 2 months – the only side effect has been increase of breast size, I am trying to persevere with it and do a lot of exercise so I don't increase weight and hopefully maintain my breast size and I will take St John Worts if I feel a bit moody. 
The Nuvaring is great – 3 weeks in, 1 week out for your period and then the next cycle begins. If your partner can feel the ring while intercourse you can take it out for maximum 3 hours and then insert straight after. 
I know everyone is different but the Nuvaring is a low dosage of hormones and it is really working for me. So if you don't want to worry every month if you are pregnant I recommend Nuvaring. It has been great for me."""
"I have had a good experience on this birth control. Honestly I was terrible at taking a pill everyday. So I switched to this after a year on birth control pills. Its convent. Unnoticeable. You don't feel it, neither my partner noticed it, only of a few occasions. No mood issues. No unusual bleeding issues. No gain weight or anything honestly medically concerning. Would recommended it to my friends as it was to me. Only thing I would say is its tricky to insert but it loosens up. You can remove it during intercourse too. I tried that and honestly now I just leave it in."
"I am a 21 year old female and I used nuvaring for 2 months but it was affecting my moods (making me really depressed and unmotivated) and I couldn't take it anymore. I tried it again a few months later hoping it would be different but I spotted for the whole month, I got acne, and my moods took a dip again. I had it for a month but have since switched to Skyla"
"I switched to the NR in September of 2014 because I was constantly bleeding with my pills.  I loved it! I did have mood swings right before my period and possible drop in libido, but I'm not sure if it was from the NR or due to stress.  I recently have to stop NR due to it falling out. I started a new ring a week ago & could not get it to stay in place, never has this happen before.  I went to the doctor and they had not explaination, so they started me on some pills.  They said I could possibly try again in a month & I will.  NR is not cheap, but the company does have a coupon you can use.  If I can use it again I would."
"I was on Nuvaring for just over a year. On September 15, 2016 I was admitted to the hospital for a blood clot in my leg. I do not smoke nor did I do anything to injure myself for this clot to appear. It went to my lung as well. My doctor immediately told me to discontinue the Nuvaring. And I can no longer take anything with hormones in it. Fast forward to the beginning of November, I discovered a lump in my breast. After ultrasounds and mammograms and surgical biopsy, On December 8, 2016, at 34 years old,  I was diagnosed with Invasive Lobular Carcinoma, a type of breast cancer. Just saw my primary doctor today (01/18/2017). She believes the blood clots and the cancer are all related to the Nuvaring. Breast cancer does not run in my family."
"I originally started taking this years ago and couldn't make it through the first 2 months due to the side effects. Mood swings, depression, low sex drive, etc. I decided to try this again after 4 months of being married to my husband. The first month was terrible. I was sick to my stomach every single day. I didn't want to get out of bed and was almost in a state of depression. Month two has been better as far as nausea, but I have NO SEX DRIVE.  It's already put a strain on my marriage. I'm emotional, anything can make me cry, and I continue to have frequent mood swings. I took it out a couple days ago because it was time and I doubt that I'll put it back in. I'm a newlywed and I'm supposed to be having lots of sex and be happy!"
"I've got one word that pains me to say...ACNE! I thought my acne subsided for good by senior year of high school but I'm now 21 and experiencing major cystic acne again. And the beginning of the flare ups were about 1 month in to starting the nuvaring. This alone makes me want to get off it, but I've also expirienced a definite emotional bump lately and I've been extremely lethargic. It's a shame too, because it was really convienient for me to use."
"So a lot of people only write about their poor experiences but let me tell you about my good experience. First if all, I got put on Nuvaring after I got pregnant while ON the pill (Saffryl- probably spelled it wrong) despite me taking it for two years at the same time daily, and taking OTHER measures to prevent me getting pregnant. It was with twins, too. I went to planned parenthood for an obgyn appointment because the local obgyn was booked out for over 6 months when it came time for me to start birth control again. They gave me THREE Nuvarings for FREE. I didn't even ask for them for free, I was willing to pay for the script at my pharmacy. And ever since, they've been a wonderful alternative to the pill. Don't let cost deter you."
"""Pros: pop it in, wait three weeks, pop it out.  replace right away to skip a period (this never really worked for me, but I could stretch it out some if there was a date I wanted to skip. I could never convince my body to skip a whole month. My periods were much lighter and shorter on NR which was nice. 3-4 days usually, medium to light flow.
Cons: NO Libido.. which I guess is what really makes this work, I did not want sex from my husband. I could do the deed, but there was no passion like before. Sex became completely irrelevant for me. I basically formed an indifferent opinion of my husband. I took a break for a month or two to see if I felt more like myself, and I did, but I also ended up pregnant with baby number 3, whoops."""
"I was on the Nuvaring for 6 years. When I first started it, I had the typical headaches and nauseous feeling that's normal when starting BC. Over the course of those 6 years, I began having mild depression, and lost my enthusiasm for life or anything really. I would have sharp and intense pains in my lower abdomen area (uterus/ovaries) which at some points had my bent over in pain. On 2 ocasions that I can recall, I had very irregular and very heavy bleeding, which is very unusual for myself, especially because both times the bleeding lasted nearly a month. When I finally got fed up enough with Nuvaring and took it out for good I was bleeding extremely heavily for 2-3 weeks straight after my regular period. Within 2 days bleeding was done."
"After being on Depo Provera for five years, I decided to try the Nuvaring. After having my second and last child, I went back to the Nuvaring. I love not remembering taking a pill daily and the ability to skip periods (there is still a chance of breakthrough bleeding, but it is light). I am diabetic, so the amount of estrogen in contraceptives is a concern; the Nuvaring has 15 micrograms which is lower than many OC's (besides Lo Loestrin Fe which has 10). Unlike OC and POP, weight is not a factor with effectiveness. At first, the side effects I experienced were breast tenderness and vaginal irritation. The side effects went away after the second month. I had to get used to the insertion, but now it is no problem."
"I have been on the combo type of birth control since I was 16. I started with the ortho lo (the basic one in movies in the round case), Yaz came out and I switched to that, I was so tired of remembering to take a pill everyday, during my yearly pap my OBGYN told me about the patch I used it for a few years and I never gained weight on the pill or ring but for some reason the patch did make me gain some weight, I was always worried I put in the wrong spot and it wasn't going to work, taking it off weekly hurt like an extra strong bandaid and left purple gluey sticky stuff I had to scrub off with alcohol. After those years I was put on the ring. My weight went back to normal, I have no pain, Insert 3 weeks, period, insert again. So easy! Love it!"
"I began Nuvaring in July and omg I wish I haven't. I've been depressed ever since I started, nausea every once in a while but literally crying my eyes out every single day. I've thought to seek help, I've never experienced depression this bad or these thoughts before... thought I was just unhappy and idk what told me to check these reviews but I'm glad I did and I can't relate more. Took out my nuvaring last night... I'm done, "
"I started using the Nuva Ring in Apr. 2016. My doctor recommended it because I randomly began to have a very abnormal menstural cycle and the cramps became excruciating. Almost as soon as I started NR, I began to have spurts of VERY sharp pains all throughout the day. They were so bad that sometimes I would find myself hunched over. My doctor and I assumed my body was just adjusting to the NR. These pains went on for about a month and then everything ceased. From that point on everything as far as pain, and the regulation of my menstural cycle was fine. I really loved the convenience of NR. I stopped using NR in Dec 2016. I stopped using it because I noticed that during the months of usage, I experienced extreme depression,& mood swings."
"After hearing a lot of good things about Nuvaring I've decided to give it a try. At first I have to say I absolutely loved it. No side effects, easy to use and helped with period pain. Now I am 4 months in and I lost appetite (which all in all is not a bad thing), I have terrible mood swings and got extremely teary and depressed. I cry approx 70% of the day. I constantly feel very sad and poorly, lost my enthusiasm for life and feel worthless, hopeless. Last time I felt this way was 16 years ago when I was on the pill, I stopped it immediately after I have realised I was capable of harming myself. I've only today stopped NR and hopefully will start feeling better soon."
"Was on Nuvaring twice. Long story but I don't remember the first time and it was also a short period of time. The last time I was on it for about a week when my hands started breaking out in a weird rash and I felt odd. My doc thinks I was allergic to something in it so I took it out and my hands went back to normal right away. Odd reaction."
"The only good thing about Nuvaring was it's ease of use. Everything else about it was a nightmare! I had horrible mood swings, and it made my anxiety and depression so much worse. I would lash out at people for no reason, and I had one night where I was so emotionally distraught that I physically could not stop crying! It also made me very nauseous and throw up quite a lot. Needless to say, I'm back on the pill now and I have no side effects."
"I'm four days days in, and the mood swings are terrible. I have no history of depression or mood swings. Two days after starting I began feeling anxious and depressed. Ease of use is great, I have had no cramps, bloating, or break outs. I can't feel the ring when it's in and it doesn't fall out. I recommend if you want to try the ring, it may work well for some, but keep an eye on your emotions and call your doctor if something feels out of place. Don't feel ashamed or embarrassed that your mood changes! BC messes with your hormone levels and it is better to let a doctor know than to suffer unnecessarily. May be great for some, but this BC is not for me."
"I loved this birth control at first. My insurance covered it at zero dollars out of pocket, I only had to think about it twice a month, and I never had a problem with intercourse or vaginal irritation. After four months however, I don't know why, but I changed. It started when I cried after sex and freaked my significant other out. It was the first time I had ever cried in front of him, but for the next three or four weeks all I would do was cry and sleep when I was around him. I got more depressed than I ever had in my life (I've struggled for years, but this was different) and I was nauseous after every time I ate, so I just stopped eating. The depression and decreased libido were the main things I couldn't stand, so I got off it after six months."
"I had it in for 2 months. Got hot flashes panic attacks and insomnia. Took it out, got migraines, hot flashes anxiety and irregular periods. My advice take the pill. It's annoying but it's a better method."
"Tried it for about 9 months, easy in use but I don't think the amount of hormones that ends up in your body is any less than on the pill, not symptom wise at least. It works fine in general but if you have a sensitivity to hormonal bc don't expect it to be much better than other methods! I experienced a dramatic drop in libido and this was ultimately the main reason for me to stop but there were other side effects as nausea, some weight gain and it really irritated my urinary tract in the beginning too. I have switched to non hormonal bc now."
"I started using NR because oral contraceptives made me extremely nauseous so my dr suggested skipping the GI tract all together. I'm on birth control and also take metformin to help manage the symptoms of my PCOS. I had chronic sharp pains in my abdomen for years and the NR has been the first thing to help. I can't explain how thankful I am to not feel like I'm being stabbed from the inside everyday. That being said, NR has given me extreme mood swings and depression and also very low libido. I find myself not being able to feel any emotion but anger. I took the ring out because I would rather deal with the physical pain than the psychology pain. Back to the drawing board for me."
"The first day I put the ring in, I had extremely bad cramps. I thought it was normal due to the fact that it was new. These cramps were followed by such severe abdominal pain I was not able to walk or drive for a period of time. Shortly after, I began having pain in my leg that would not go away. I have been on the ring a month now and my LEG PAIN is still there. I have serious feelings of depression, no appetite, nausea after eating, and NO ENERGY! I can barely make it 6 hours into the day before I need to lie down. After reading about the life threatening blood clots the leg pain may lead to, I decided to take it out. Although it works, it is not worth the pain."
"""Has anyone on here tried Nuvaring and had an extremely poor experience? I was looking for new BC and my doctor recommended Nuvaring. NEVER AGAIN. EVER. I have only had it in for two days and have felt very nauseous, extremely tired, dizzy, angry, depressed, and have had a terrible headache and cramping. I've been so dizzy and my stomach has hurt so bad I couldn't even get out of bed. As soon as I put it in I immediately felt different and in the most awful way. I just took it out and I'm throwing the rest away. Like I said, never again. I've heard some people have great experiences with it, but that certainly wasn't mine. I just want to feel normal again and hopefully will soon. 
Anyone else experience symptoms like this while using it?"""
"""So I switched from the pill which was great aside from having to remember to take it. 
The NR isn't terrible but I will be switching back cause out how broken out its caused my face to be (i never, aside from the day my period starts, get breakouts) I don't like how much it has increased my discharge or the feel of it rubbing during intercouse. I was hoping this would help with decreasing the emotional effects that I was having with the pill but only a month in and it's the same. Also it wraps around my cervix making it very aggravating to remove or check its position."""
"Terrible mood swings, cramps all month long, constantly  bloated, made my periods way worse, and there was an irritating discharge. Never again. I'd rather have to remember to use the pill every day. Plus, doctors have told my friends  that haven't had kids yet they can't use it, and I can't find any information as to why."
"""I started NuvaRing at 13 to regulate my heavy periods. I'm 23 now, still on it and love it. Here's the basics:
 -Never falls out, can't feel it at all (unless it's not put in right or if you have a wider/tilted uterus)
-Husband is large and can't stand it, so I put it back in after intimacy.
-If I forget/lose it, I just put a new one in for 3 more weeks (skip a period, whoop!)
-I have never refridgerated mine, the teens don't need to see that in there lol
-no cramps, bloating, acne, weight gain, etc. (I eat a lot so i'm not gonna blame my anti-baby meds for my own bad habits)
-no mood swings, sex drive hasn't changed, periods are lighter/are over quicker than before. 
-no insurance? Forget it. These freaking things are $150 a pop."""
"So I read alot of bad reviews on it, knowing that people only write reviews if they have bad experiences. Well I decided to take a shot at it. I am a week  since first putting it in. I am having a lot of discharge, and my vagina is really raw. My boyfriend can feel it during sex, and it burns his penis. I am not having any depression, but I am super irritable, and have mood swings. I wouldn't say don't try it, but it isn't for everyone."
"""MAKE SURE YOU ARE AWARE OF THE SIDE EFFECTS OF THE NUVARING IF USING FOR THE 1ST TIME. My Dr didn't give me much info other than the brochure and I wasn't prepared for the roller coaster 5 days I had (yep that's all I lasted). Nauseous, sweaty, extremely tired, lethargic, unhappy, starving then not hungry at all, cramps, itchiness, headaches, dehydrated, fuzzy head, cough, teary EXTREMELY teary, anxious, nervous, irritable.. you name it I had it! After a very scary panic attack driving home from work I ripped it out and will not try it again. two days later I feel myself again
after using the pill for 14 years I'm not new to hormonal BC and I would not recommend this to anyone I know. it was extremely scary becoming a crazy person!"""
"I started using the NuvaRing right after my wedding about two months ago. I was looking for a better alternative than the pill. But since then, my moods have drastically changed. I feel like I'm always angry and I can't even stand my husband sometimes. My husband and friends tell me they've notice a huge change in my mood. I have very little tolerance and will go 0 to 100 real quick!! I'll cry over anything and I just can't stand myself sometimes. I have not gained any weight and it has not affected intercourse but it may cost me my relationship. Definitely switching back to the pill. My friends are also on the Ring and have no complaints...so it may depend."
"After 2 months of having it, felt lightheaded. Then the next cycle had depression and panic attacks that I have never had before. I took it out 2 months ago. I still haven't had a normal period. I get hot flashes and migraines every day. I've never had migraines before. I also have horrible breast pain. I should have stayed on the pill."
"""I loved the freedom this method gave me, as it somehow makes you feel in control to be able to take the ring out if you don't like it or if it irritates you (after a year of paragard, this was a nice change).
However, this method gave me terrible and recurring yeast infections. I was only able to use this for about 3-4 months before I felt too irritated (and financially strapped) to keep using it. Also, keeping them in the fridge was a little awkward."""
"""I love my Nuva ring.  I was on it a couple of years ago but had to stop because my insurance wasn't covering it 100%.  I got a mirena IUD instead.  After a year of being miserable with the IUD, I had it removed and went back to Nuva ring which my insurance is now covering again.
I haven't had any side effects that are different from regular birth control pills.  I actually have less problems because I would immediately start my period if I was even a couple of hours late taking my pill.
It is very convenient and I don't have problems with it falling out.  My partner says he can occasionally feel it during sex but that it isn't uncomfortable. 
There are risks with the NR just like with any form of birth control or with pregnancy."""
"I love that I only have to think about my birth control twice a month. It's easy to use. That being said, after about six months of use, I realized that I was noticeably more anxious, depressed, and emotional. Where I've had problems with anxiety before, I more frequently have panic attacks, a rapid heartbeat, and a tight chest. I find it hard to fall asleep at night, and hard to get out of bed in the morning. Maybe the worst part is that I have a very low libido. There will be times when I do have a desire to have sex with my SO, but my body doesn't respond or tenses up quickly. Otherwise, I don't think about intercourse nearly as much as I used to."
"My wife recently spent a week in the hospital including 3 days in neurological ICU because of a blood clot in her brain. She had 17 mini strokes and almost died. Oh, and she's only 25. She doesn't smoke, didn't hit her head, and no family history of blood clots. The neurosurgeon said it was because of the nuvaring. So please, don't even try it. I don't want anyone to have to go through that"
"I had a 2 month sample to try from my midwife because I was tired of taking a daily pill. The first month, I was extremely irritable, angered quickly for no reason. I felt bloated all the time and I started breaking out. After the first month, my skin cleared up, and I went "back to normal." Overall, it is a great concept, but I can never keep the NuvaRing in place. It constantly moves around and will sometimes stay by the cervix, and other times will fall down and  feel like it's going to fall right out, which I can't stand. I constantly have to go back and push it into place, which is very irritating. My husband said he couldn't feel the ring during sex, but I could feel it moving against my vaginal wall. I am going back to the pill."
"I previously did a review on Nuva Ring about a year ago and I have to say my opinion hasn't changed much. It's very easy to use, my skin is clear, my periods are much more tolerable, I have gained about 15-20 pounds within the last year, but I was only 105 lbs, so I look healthier and my breasts are a lot larger. A couple things I've noticed is that my breasts are extremely tender and my sex drive is unfortunately VERY low. Still a very good, effortless birth control."
"This is my second week with my first nuvaring. So far I don't like it, my face has broken out. I have the worst stomach pain and migraines!!!!! Yesterday I thought I was dying, my whole body was shaking because it hurt so bad! Overall the NR makes me feel like I'm dying from the inside "
"So I'm still currently on NR. And I'm not sure how I feel about it, I'm finding that I'm alot more dry, harder to get turned on and really not wanting to have sex in general. I also feel like I'm having crazy mood swings angry ones. Since starting this form of birth control my relationship has ended because I'm to angry (he says which I kind of agree with) I feel depressed constantly I can't stop crying ever. And I'm normally a very happy go luck kinda gal. Not sure what to do at this point if I should take it out or see how it goes..."
"I've been on the ring for several months. I really like it: it's easy to insert, it's simple to take out and it's very comfortable. My skin in very clear-it could be from the ring. Very happy with it. I've had sex a few times with it inside. My partner is well endowed and didn't feel it at all. I don't plan on taking it out during sex. The only complaints I have is that it made me a little irritable at the beginning and the hormones have increased my appetite. Right now I am in the process of leaving it in continuously so that's I don't get anemia. I have awful PMDD and also have a tendency to become anemic. Can't wait to never get it again. I've tried a bunch of birth control pills: horrible side effects. Love the ring!"
"The first month was great aside from acne and stomach cramps. The second month was horrible.  On top of the acne and stomach cramps, I was very sensitive during intercourse, I was unable to sleep and had horrible dreams every night.  I also became manic-depressive, more so on the depressed side.  I did gain a little extra weight but not too much."
"I thouroughly enjoyed NR it was my first real birth control. I was on it for about 9 months. Around 5 months I started to feel like I had an STD when I got checked it was nothing. Around the same time I was experiencing sooooo much excess discharge and that's when i decided to switch, but for the most part i loved it."
"I've been on it for 5 months now...during the 3rd month, I started bleeding (at first I thought it was spotting, but it lasts for like 2 weeks). No acne, no itchiness, some slight mood swings but I've gained weight and my sex drive is gooone.I was on beyaz before but switched because my new insurance company didn't cover beyaz. It's nice not having to remember  to take a pill, but I'm calling my Doctor to recommend something else."
"I've been on this medication for about 2 months and I've already gained 15 pounds. I'm not complaining about bigger boobs and a bigger butt, but when your starting weight is only 102 gaining that much weight makes me feel huge! I initially went on it to help with bleeding between periods and it did a great job of stopping that, but I'm scared to keep taking it because I'm gaining soooo much weight!"
"The Nuva-ring caused a depression for me after just 1,5 months use. I became depressed a few weeks after beginning, and it only became worse."
"I was on Sprintec 28 day birth control for years. I got off of this because I started forgetting my pill. I wanted to try a different form of birth control that would be easier for me. My doctor immediately told me that the NuvaRing would be best, that I would have no side effects, and that I would be fine. I was NOT fine. I became extremely depressed, was crying all the time and furious with everyone. I started to have suicidal thoughts. It was the scariest feeling. After a month of this, I couldn't take it anymore and got off of the NuvaRing. Being on this medicine was the worst experience of my entire life and I believe that if another option would work for you, try it instead of this. Nothing is worth feeling depressed and suicidal."
"I started NuvaRing when I was 15, I don't trust the pill and have only had nuvaring,(recently switched to skyla.) I was on NuvaRing for 5 years. I liked it. It did get a little annoying because it would sometimes start to hang low due to certain sex. Helped with cramps, but periods got confusing. Found out  I misused for a few months to a year, messed up my timing on my calendar. But I was still fine. I recommend it."
"I love NuvaRing. A few years back I went on the pill for a few months and was almost suicidal. After dating my boyfriend for several months I decided it would be safer to go on some form of protection and my physician recommended NR. The first month and a half I was an emotional wreck. Irritable and moody and it almost ruined my relationship. I feel nothing now except for a moment of cramping. He can't feel it during sex either and I never feel it day-to-day. I am very dry during intercourse regardless of a level of stimulation. That's my only complaint"
"I was using the Nuva ring after a tubal ligation to control my periods. They had been really heavy and it was great at doing that. 2 yrs in I had a pulmonary embolism and nearly died. Something I now realise was probably from the Nuva ring. Massive class action in the US over this. I didn't realise at the time. I went of it 3 months ago and have not regretted it at all. Libido returned to normal after so long. My husband was beginning to get annoyed. Not only that just feels better during sex without it."
"""I am currently a week into my second Nuvaring.
Pros:
Ease of use
Skipping a period
Short, light periods
Less cramping
Pregnancy prevention
Cons:
Acne (My face has broken out very badly the first week I've used both of the Nuvarings)
Excess amount of discharge
Lowered libido
Mood swings/emotional
Bloating
Overall, the Nuva is great for ease of use and does protect well against pregnancy. However, I am not sure that the side effects are worth it."""
"Best birth control I've tried. Super comfortable and easy to use. I've had zero side effects. No weight gain, and I have clear skin! No issues with sex either. I've been on it for 2 years and there's been no changes in my sex drive. Give it a try! It changed my life for the better. Don't let the bad reviews scare you!"
"I used the nuvaring for about 8 years as a birth control after my fist child. My periods were short and light (3 days) and it didn't affect my mood. I had always suffered from heavy periods and the pills would make me irritable. There were times where my husband would feel it during intercourse but that just meant it wasn't properly inserted. (Adjusted it and continued) though the package insert says you can have it off for 6 hours, I never dared to try. (Just in case) I stopped the NR when I was ready for my second baby and got pregnant in 4 months and had a tubal ligation. I recommend the ring to all of my girlfriends!"
"I have been on NR for over a year. I absolutely love it and plan to stay on it until we're ready for children. Virtually no side effects except for a little dryness/itchiness at the beginning. It stays in place. I only have my period every three months or so and its very short. (My physician recommended that I leave it in during the "period week"). My migraines are much less frequent. It stopped my ovarian cysts. My fiancé tells me he can feel it sometimes but doesn't bother him at all. Easiest birth control I have ever been on. I feel great and it works."
"I have been on NuvaRing for almost a year. At first I loved it because of the lack of pills/having to remember everyday. My boyfriend said he could feel it, but it wasn't a big deal. A few months go by, and he notices a slight cut on his penis. He said it hurt, but only a little. We kept having sex but much less often. Now it's progressed to the point where it hurts all the time especially when he gets hard. I am switching to an IUD ASAP. I would highly recommend NuvaRing if you do not have a monogamous parter, because I had absolutely no other side effects. However, if you're in a committed relationship, please save your parter this pain!!!"
"I don't normally do these but I have to share what I went through on the Nuvaring so that maybe it can help someone else understand more about it. I had been taking the Nuva for 2+ years with no complaints. I was/am currently in a monogamous relationship. Very happy. We've been together for many years now but we're still quite young. (Early 20s) one thing that was never reliable was our sex life. I desired him and vice versa, but I was just never in the mood. This went on for a couple years and all along I thought it was me. Many fights came out of this. Long story short, I ran out of refills and went a few weeks without and realized the nuva was surpressing my libido. It almost cost me my relationship. Take from that what you will."
"I've been on nuvaring for about 5 months and it was pretty good until i got a different partner. Initially I experienced some bleeding in the very beginning during hard sex, but now with a "bigger guy" I've blead quite a bit, and he says that he can totally feel it (and it doesn't feel the best). We tried having sex with out it and I didn't bleed, but still having to take something out before every time you have sex and being on a 3 hour time constraint per 24 hours is not that fun. It does have its pluses though, like you don't have to take the pill everyday. However also, explaining to a guy that he might feel something up there during foreplay is also not the funnest..."
"I am an emotional wreck. I cry about everything! My sex drive is down. My acne is worse. My cysts are inflamed, but I have STOPPED bleeding. The many different bc pills didn't help with that. I have bled 3 ish weeks out of the month for the past few years and nuvaring is our (mine and my gyno's) last effort before taking out my uterus (I'm 26). I'm really hoping that some of these side effect calm down the more my body gets used to this medicine because right now it is trading one bad situation for another."
"I've been on NR for about three weeks and I just took it out. The very first side effect I noticed was acne. I've never had acne before until I started this. My face was covered! I had brown discharge after the first week, which I know was normal, but I occasionally got this foul smell and more discharge. It hurt too much to have it in during intercourse and it bothered my boyfriend too, it never stayed in good, I could always feel it at the opening of my vagina, but what made me take it out is the itchiness and burning feeling I get from it!! I couldn't take it. Honestly I felt gross the whole time having something inside of me all the time."
"So..  I had sex for the first time ever with my boyfriend .... And I'm on the nuvaring... He didn't have any protection.. But we thought that it would be OK... Because of the birth control.. Well..... I'm pregnant."
"I would NOT recommend this birth control for anyone! My first few days on it were okay, I did not feel any of the symptoms besides a little bit of heavier cramping and more abdominal pain while on my period. However, when my period was over and I tried having sex for the first time with my boyfriend, my vagina didn't stop burning afterward. It probably lasted all night. Since then, every time I have sex, it's fine during but afterward is really painful. It burns when I pee, my pH makes me feel gross and sometimes gives a smell, and this lasts for the rest of the day! Trying to have sex a second time is soooo painful, it even becomes so dry down there that it makes it worse. Do not use Nuva Ring!!"
"It's so hard to review BC because it's different for every woman. But my experience with the ring was just okay. I was on it for a year. Didn't effect acne or my sex drive. Losing weight was extra difficult. I got BAD headaches and the worst cramps I've ever had. However, my period was very predictable and only lasted about 2 days.  It was nice to not have to think about taking a pill everyday. Left it in during sex and no problems. For me, though, the cons outweighed the pros. Plus, depending on your insurance, it's very expensive."
"I LOVE THE RING!!! Ladies, I seriously recommend the ring to anyone and everyone. The ring has given so much freedom in college and it's amazing. I've been on it for a year and have had zero side effects. ZERO weight gain, no acne (in fact my skin is clearer than it was before being on the NuvaRing), no mood swings, no decrease in sex drive etc. 5 of my friends have tried the ring as well and they love it too!! You can't feel it once inserted and it stays in place during sex and won't move until you take it out. It's super easy to put in as well! It has helped make my period super manageable and I have no PMS. I used to suffer from painful periods and now I don't have to worry about any of that. It's great! Give it a try!"
"What a low-hassle birth control method! I love that I can easily insert it and forget about it for 3 weeks. It's flexible- you can use it continuously or on a cycle so that you get a period week - which I appreciate. I experienced a bit of breakthrough bleeding the first month, but other than that I experienced no negative side effects. The only thing I don't like is having to refrigerate it before use since I share the refrigerator with many other people."
"i've been taking NuvaRing for 6 days now. i was previously taking Yaz pills. CONS: I'm breaking out more than normal (the pill controlled my breakouts to like 1 a week if i was keeping up my skincare) and I've had about 5 white heads since starting and i don't normally get white heads so I'm not thrilled about that, also It drains my energy & i can't stay up more than 5-7 hours before NEEDING a nap, its so bad i can barely keep my eyes open even while driving at that point and when i do nap its VERY HARD to wake up fully and not feel groggy, hoping that stops. PROS: can't forget to take it, has made me even more lubricated down there (hasn't affected sex drive negatively at all)"
"After the first week and a half of severe itching - so bad it disrupted sleep - and being able to feel the ring rubbing my insides, I began getting cysts all over. I finally discontinued use but I'm afraid the scarring isn't improving."
"I gave the Nuva ring a good go for 3 months. Love not having to take a pill and I can't feel it in me, nor can my boyfriend. But, It's given me pimples, made my boobs sore and destroyed my sex drive. I'll be going back to yaz."
"""I had Nuvaring for about 4 months  and I just took it out and will be getting back on my previous pill. I had been on the pill for like 6 years with no problem except I was just tired of having to remember it. My dr recommended NR, so I tried it. Totally effective when it comes to preventing pregnancy and you can't beat the convenience. BUT I feel like I have a UTI all the time, my skin has gotten worse and I've gained 10 lbs even while eating healthy and cutting out processed foods and dairy (I'm 5'1, so 10 lbs feels like 20 lbs). 
Just my two cents but all BC affects people differently"""
"I Love nuvaring. I've been using it for one year. I've used many different methods of BC and this is by far the best. I've experienced no weight gain, no mood swings, and maintain a healthy sex drive. Here is the best part: it has cleared up my severe cystic acne completely and my skin stays 100% consistently clear while I'm on it. As someone who has struggled with acne, this is huge for me. Nuvaring has helped my self esteem more than anything. I also love that it has kept me child-free so I can achieve all my goals and dreams. One down side is that I do take it out every time I have sex because I feel like it's uncomfortable to have it in during sex. But it's worth the clear skin. And I've done 2 rounds of Accutane- this works way better."
"Honestly, if you want to experience PAIN then this is right for you. Yeah it prevents pregnancy and what not but the amount of pain you experience in your uterus is totally not worth it! I am 20 years old and I've never experienced this amount/type of pain. Its extremely harsh and it feels like needles piercing through you! I gained 4 pounds the first week and I'm VEGAN! My breasts got bigger too and I'm not complaining but the pain just isn't for me."
"I have been using the Nuvaring for almost a year now and I absolutely love it. I keep mine in for the entire month and usually replace it without allowing myself to have a period. I feel as if the pros definitely out way the cons. It has proven to be 100% effective and it is so convenient for my crazy schedule. I have experienced around 25 pounds of weight gain. I was only around 110lbs when I started this birth control so the weight gain looks healthy. My breasts are very tender most of the time and they have doubled in size. I am a little more tired then usual and sometimes have dizzy spells. I do think it is very convient not having to worry about taking a pill everyday and I feel very healthy. My sex drive hasn't suffered much either!"
"I've been on NuvaRing for almost two years now with little problems. I switched from the pill because the various kinds I tried made me super hormonal. the Nuva Ring is easy in, easy out. Not felt during sex for my partner. More recently I have noticed being dry for no reason even when I'm extremely turned on, and I have gained 15 pounds since I've had it with no change in my diet or excercise. I've gained about 1 cup size also."
"I switched to the NuvaRing from the pill several months ago. Plus side is no more having to remember to take the pill everyday. The pill gave me bad body acne and cystic acne which NuvaRing cleared up. However, the NuvaRing gives me crazy mood swings every month like clockwork. My poor boyfriend will do something and I snap and can't control my anger. I feel like it's the end of the world and cry excessively. I think this is the end of hormonal birth control for me. Would not recommend if the pill or another hormonal BC did not work with your hormones. Also, the pill and the NuvaRing give me horrible canker sores that I have to take prescription medicine for. Going to try the copper IUD next. Hope this helps anyone in their BC quest :)"
"I've been on the NuvaRing since November of 2015 at my 6 week appointment after having my first child. I love not having to remember a pill every day. I do however suffer from depression, and I have noticed that whenever I take it out for the week of my period I am way more moody than I ever was before... I have also gained a few pounds since being on this birth control, but I can deal with that. It has decreased my sex drive tremendously but I also don't want to have another baby yet, so not having sex with my husband like we used to isn't a big deal for either of us. I love this product and I will continue to use it until I'm ready for baby #2 and after that baby I will use it again! "
"""After two years on the pill, I decided to try this product as my method of birth control. 
Pros: 
- You don't have to remember to take a pill every single day
- You can't feel it when it's in
- You partner won't really feel it during sex after a few times
- It works! I have even left it in for up to four weeks to prevent my period from starting during an important event or a vacation
Cons:
- You may be very dry. I'm not sure why but even when you are aroused it is difficult to ""self lubricate."" But that's nothing some lube won't fix."""
"23 years old, petite body size. i've been using the nuva ring for a little over a month now and so far i really like it. prior to using the nuva ring i was taking birth control pills. not having to remember to take a pill everyday is such a relief! the first time i got my period using the nuva ring it normal. slight cramping but nothing out of the ordinary. my boob size has increased probably a half cup so far. the only down side is that my partner can feel the nuva ring when we have intercourse. intercourse can be uncomfortable for him if the ring is in, so we have to take it out. removing and inserting the nuva ring is very simple. i would recommend this birth control."
"I was on it for 6 months with few side effects (vaginal discharge and itchiness, mild nausea and the occasional dizzy spell. Also, after sex the semen would just sort of leak out.) But those were mild issues compared to the mood changes that started in month 7. I noticed that little things would bother me and I was angry a lot. I was thinking it couldn't be the birth control because I have been on it for 6 months but I tried taking it out anyway and sure enough after a day, I feel happy again! No more anger. It was effective for preventing pregnancy %100. So talk to your doctor and see which BC works for you. Everyone is different so it may not cause any mood changes or side effects for you."
"So far I have no complaints.  Easy in easy out. I take mine out befor getting busy ;-)but thats just me. No side effects yet. I am breastfeeding a 9 week old and havent seen or felt it decrease my supply or put baby off nursing which is a huge plus for me. I have forgot to put it in within 3 hours but since Im still breastfeeding exclusivly Im not to concerened. Id definatly say try it out. You have total control and dont have to think about it another BIG plus for me, I dont have time to rember BC till its to late.  ;-)"
"I had this in for about two months, at which point I started experiencing horrible headaches. I had a migraine once, too. This happened for about a week straight. That combined with the almost constant fatigue (two naps a day sometimes) made me decide to take it out. It also killed my sex drive, but I kind of expected that."
"Ive used the NR off and on for almost a decade. Its fantastic, but does have side effects. Typically regular, short, and light. periods. This was huge for me not being regular ever without it. But for me it causes about a 10lb weightgain and kills my sex drive."
"""I was on Nuva Ring for over 8 years.  I have horrendous periods, so my OB told me to insert every four weeks and skip all but 1-2 periods a year.
It worked great as far as birth control and controlled periods so I didn't have any.  I couldn't feel it once I got it in right, and really didn't have a whole lot of other problems.
The only reason I am switching is because the ring can cause cervical erosion, especially if you have very sensitive skin.  This results in pain and bleeding during intercourse.  It's a relatively easy fix, they cauterize the touchy spots, but still very awkward.  I am now switching back to the pill to see if I can find something that isn't so hard on that tissue."""
"I've been on Sprintec pill for almost 3 years! I have no side effects! I love it. At the beginning there was a little bit of breakthrough bleeding but just for the first month."
"Mononessa pill was a colossal waste of my time. I was prescribed this because I have low estrogen/have a really irregular period and my doctor was concerned that it would effect my bones and put me at risk for osteoporosis. The first day of taking the pill, my stomach cramped and I felt nauseas and bloated. Totally unlike me. This lasted each day around the time I took the pill. My skin started to break out around day 4 on my forehead, somewhere I haven't gotten a pimple in 4 months. I knew something was off. I got small whiteheads around my mouth too. My body is completely rejecting this pill so I stopped. Looking into ways to raise my estrogen naturally"
"I've been using sprintec for a year now and for the most part it has been good. I first started with nausea for the first two days but then they were gone. After 4 months into the pill I started gaining weight but I was also eating more than usual and not exercising so I don't blame the pill. As in this year, I gained 15 pounds but exercising has helped me lose that weight at the moment I lost 7 pounds now! It also cleared my skin I never had acne to begin with but it has made it look better. It also helped with the migraines and cramps I got during my period cycle they are less painful. In my opinion it wouldn't hurt to try."
"This stuff is TERRIBLE. My pharmacy keeps switching me back and forth between Mili and Estarylla and Mononessa, and every time I take Mili I break out into horrible acne, my anxiety escalates significantly, and I have crazy mood swings. WORST birth control I've ever taken! This stuff should be discontinued."
"I've tried Femynor pills for over 2 months now after being diagnosed with  polycystic ovaries 2 months ago. My symptoms are, blackheads, acne, facial hair and hair in places I have ever had before, my period was absolutely ridiculous, I would never know where it can come, sometimes within 2 weeks, or maybe 90 days after, for being sexually active is a huge problem, and also I have cramps 24/7, they didn't even let me stand up, also my period would last like 7 to 14 days, with abundant bleeding, I had to actually sleep with a plastic bag (lol) like a panty to prevent the blood to stain my bed, it was really bad.  I searched all my symptoms online and I saw that it could be that , so I finally went to a Gynecologist, she send me this pills, which honestly I guess worked? But did not get away my side effects of polycystic ovaries (acne, excess hair) it just regulate my period and how much I bleed, but my acne still horrible so does my excess hair"
"I've been taking Previfem for almost a month now and it's been making me nauseous, very irritable, low sex drive, having trouble staying wet during sex, emotional, and it gave me a yeast infection. I do not recommend this birth control. "
"I was on Sprintec for 2 years and it worked great! Did not get pregnant and my period was extremely regular and lasted about 5-7 days. I've recently started taking Lyza (progestin only pill, Norethindrone 0.35 mg)  and I'm on month 3 and I want to go back to Sprintec! I have a lot of bleeding in between my period and my last period lasted two weeks!! Over it!"
"Although this medicine prevented pregnancy, I've had two pregnancy scares in 6 months due to the side effects of this pill. Nausea, exhaustion to the point of leaving work to nap, swollen breasts and nipples, bloating, cramping two weeks before period and still during period, headaches, waking up sweaty at night, white discharge and heartburn. All the symptoms of pregnancy, but my period came at the exact time it always does and my cramps are normal. Please be cautious. I told my co-worker that I would be willing to stop having sex until I was married if this meant not having these scares and feeling miserable on this medicine."
"I really like Sprintec overall. I used to take a different birth control but I switched to this and I'm happy with the results. I used to have really heavy periods, to the point where I'd wear the heavy overnight pads 24/7. After taking this, it has lightened my period and made my period only last 3 days instead of 5."
"This was the first birth control pill I had ever tried and it wasn't bad. Only reason I stopped taking it was because my face wasn't as clear as I wanted and my doctor told me we could find something better. No weight gain, I actually lost weight on this. A little moodier than usual but nothing too bad (also could be my body's reaction to the changing dosage each week). This pill is really middle of the road, or at least was in my experience. It's a good birth control. It'll regulate your periods. Nothing more beyond that really. I'm still being switched around and this is the one I'm going back to if estarylla doesn't work out for me."
"DONT READ THE REVIEWS!!!!! the pill works so different for everyone's body. I was on Loestrin Fe for around 6 months before I started Estarylla. On the Loestrin I experienced awful depression that I didn't even know was possible from birth control. In the first week of starting Estarylla I felt 100x better and still feel waaaayyy happier. While on my first pill I read the reviews on this website and started sobbing my eyes out freaking out that  Estarylla was going to be the death of me. The only bad thing I've experienced on this medication is extremely heavy irregular bleeding, but I realize it's still the first month so it should get better. Birth control works WAY different on everyone's body so don't let these reviews freak you out!!!!"
"I had taken Tri-Lo-Spintec for about a year and then they changed it to Marzia because of some changes in the insurance but they told me that since they both had the same ingredients they should work the same. NOT AT ALL. At first I was excited because on the other one I would get a bit of a headache on the first day of the pack and it didn't happen with Marzia. Still, four or five days after I started taking them I started developing some discomfort in my vagina and eventually got a vaginal yeast infection. I could't believe it since I take very good care of my hygiene. It came back the next month that I took a pack. Also, my period came a week late, lasted two more days than usual and I had some pain (three things that are not usual in me). Sex has also been very uncomfortable. Definitely not my best experience."
"So, I was taking Tri-Nessa for 3 years and had 0 problems with it. Best birth control pill ever. Anyways my insurance switched me to Tri-Sprintec and it has been the worst 6 months ever. I STILL get nauseous after taking it and I feel that way for hours on end. I get period like cramps every single day even when I am not on my cycle. I find myself crying randomly and my mood swings are outrageous. I have always had clear skin I never had an issue with acne while growing up and now I am 25 with a forehead full of acne, that I can't get rid of for nothing! Not like all those symptoms weren't enough I was on a weight loss spree before I was switched and had lost 25 pounds before taking these meds I literally gained 20 of it back after taking this. I hate this pill and already talked to my doctor two days ago about changing it. Next refill I am getting something different. Do not take this medication it is the worst!!!!"
"I was on trinessa for a few months years ago and had a love/hate relationship with it. The pros were: clear skin, high sex drive, and very light periods which was a plus for me. My main reason for birth control was heavy periods due to possible endo. The cons: extreme weight gain, constant headaches. My obgyn determined with the weight gain and frequent headaches that the hormones in this pill were too high and triphasic pills seem to give me headaches more often than not. I did much better on a consistent dose of low hormones. My pill at this time was switched to microgestin 1/20. I lost all the water weight gain and once my body detoxed from triphasic, the headaches and migraines lessened."
"I have only been on Estarylla for 2 weeks now. I was on another birth control pill for a very long time, it was the generic brand of YAZ (They stopped making my original birth control, can't remember the name).. anyway I couldn't be on that birth control pill that I was on anymore so I switched to Estarylla, and I got my period 4 days earlier, which I thought ok wasn't a big deal until my period was EXTREMELY HEAVY, really bad cramps , and mood swings, in just 2 weeks from being on this pill. Don't get me wrong, everybody is different and pills will react different to each person, but seeing all the bad/same reviews on this pill, I would not recommend it."
"""I was on Sprintec for 9 months and finally decided to stop taking it. On the good side, I had very light periods and no cramping, but sometimes my period would be all over the place and come twice in one month. 
The negative side of things was depression, and lots of sadness and mood swings. Basically an emotional rollercoaster. I've stopped taking it for good but if you are taking it and feel great on it then that is good too! Just thought I'd share my personal experience with you."""
"I just start Tri-Sprintec for my first time and first day taking the pill so far I haven't experienced side effects for my first time.. and first day so that's a good sign, but still waiting on my period to come to see anything else to occur. I just wanna gain weight honesty."
"""So I know everyone (including me) will end up scrolling down and be reading the comments. REMEMBER THAT EVERY WOMANS BODY IS DIFFERENT AND WILL HAVE AN DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE!!
As for me, I've always had painful periods. And was irregular ever since I started. My cycles would range from 21-50 and I honestly thought I had a real issue and I wouldn't be able to get it fixed. I've tried several natural remedies since I usually don't like using chemicals and “man made” medicines. So for my experience, the first 3 months were terrible for me. Irregular spotting, acne breakouts (although my skin has always had acne) PMS and mood swings. I was getting frustrated with it and was even tempted to stop taking it. After the third month, everything seemed to fall in place. My periods were able to regulate itself. Although my periods will be just as painful time to time as I was before. But I found Tri-Estarylla birth control  worth it. Also being my first one."""
"This is the WORST! I have been on Sprintec or Estarylla for 5+ years due to extreme stage 4 Endometriosis. Right after my 6 hour excision, Walgreens switched me over to Mili. I had 3 weeks of Estarylla that I took after the surgery and started on the Mili when I ran out. I have bled ever since and the pain I'm experiencing is INSANE!  I had severe pain every day before Sprintec and it was a literal life saver for me. My face has broken out horribly and I cannot get it under control. The intense nausea this pill has caused is forcing me to take Zofran around the clock. The migraines I've been experiencing are debilitating. I'm on it through the placebos and yet I'm still bleeding and developing cysts, which the Sprintec helped avoid. I feel like the results of that VERY expensive surgery were ruined thanks to this switch. I guess on the upside, I lost 15lbs, but that's mainly because I can't eat ANYTHING anymore even though I am STARVING! I hate this pill."
"I am on week 2, month 2 of Femynor and I'm not sure where I stand. I started this birth control at a very stressful time so I'm not sure if the side effects are due to the drug or the stress or both. But the major side effect I've noticed is that I'm nearly almost nauseous. I thought that maybe I had the stomach bug but it's on and off and without vomiting or other viral symptoms. Because of this I've lost a few pounds (which is fantastic) but I'm basically starving myself due to lack of appetite. I've also had a decreased sex drive (again could be the stress too). Aside from that, no other major side effects. My period was normal last month (though heavier than usual) and my acne hasn't gotten better or worse and no significant mood swings. I know it takes 3 months to get used to a new birth control and hope by summer when things die down and I should be used to it, that I'll feel better."
"Good"
"I was switched to Tri-Lo-Marzial after having pretty bad side effects from other birth control pills. Immediately I noticed I was cramping, ALWAYS bloated, and crazy indigestion. I was hoping if I stuck with it, my body would adjust. I stayed on this 6 months before I had to stop. It's been almost 2 months since I stopped taking them, and I'm still dealing with indigestion and bloating."
"I am writing this review from a hospital bed in the emergency room so that should be a clue as to how well this medicine worked.  I had previously been on Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo for over a dozen years with zero side effects and was really scared to start this new generic one when they discontinued my normal pill.  The first two weeks  on Tri-Lo-Marzia were ok, some minor heart palpitations and headaches but the best was yet to come.  Within hours of starting the third week of pills it felt like I was having a heart attack.  I've had intermittent extreme palpitations and episodes of “afib” with burning chest pain because of this medicine!  Once I finish the last few pills I am throwing the rest of my supply in the trash!"
"""I tried so hard to like this pill, but I can't stomach it anymore ... literally. I have horrible acid reflux from it, which has gotten progressively worse each month. I can barely eat toast, rice and bland/lean meals without having a severe stomach acid flare-up.
Pros: it's a crazy cheap pill and I did not gain weight. I actually was able to lose 15 pounds without trying (HUGE for me, since PCOS packed 45 pounds onto my small frame in ~two years in my mid-20s and I'm newly 30).
Cons: my breasts have shrunken a full cup size; hair started falling out in clumps within the first week; nails are brittle and break easily; periods are just as painful and crampy as my pre-pill days; cystic acne has gotten much worse than not being on a pill; and my hirsutism isn't improving.
I'm done with Sprintec. I can't wait to go back to Yaz or Yasmin in a week, and get my stomach back to normal!"""
"On my 7th pack at the moment and Sprintec is doing wonders as a BC pill. I don't have any side effects aside from maybe mood swings but I'd rather deal with that than an unwanted pregnancy."
"Yeah this birth control sucked for me.  I went on Sprintec for only three months but I gained about 15 pounds, was constantly bloated and anxious, broke out (and I don't usually break out), my periods did not become any shorter and my cramps did not become any less bad and my sex drive disappeared, and I also lost hair. Please do your research because going through this and having to lose the weight is not worth it just to be protected from pregnancy when there are better pills out there, you can find one that works great for you while doing that. For some, this may work but this was awful for me."
"When I first started Tri-Lo-Sprintec I was doing well on it. After the 2nd packet I started to experience bad nausea and some diarrhea. It was very uncomfortable. I felt like it might of made me gain some weight as well.  And not to mention that my sex drive was definitely down. It was an effective BC but the side effect came with were just not worth it."
"I have been on birth control for about 4 years of my life now. I've been on the nuvaring and microgestin. Never had any side effects with those, but I've dealt with acne for a really long time so I decided to switch to a birth control that could help with that. I was on it for a couple of months, didn't notice any side effects at first and my acne wasn't getting any better or worse (I didn't expect it to start working right away obviously), but by the end of the second month oh boy. I experienced horrible depression, I would cry for no reason, had no energy or motivation to do anything. I was very irritable and I had my period for 10 days straight. With that begin said, I decided to stop taking that. I never write reviews but I also want the person reading this to keep in mind, our bodies are different, this  birth control might be amazing for you. Just because it didn't work for me, doesn't mean it won't work for you."
"Not bad, but not great either. Gave me super runny discharge that felt like I was peeing myself and would soak my panties. Was only on it briefly. Not for me."
"""I got switched to this medication unknowingly after being a diehard Tri-Nessa fan. The Tri-Sprintec is not the same for me, this isn't even close to being an adequate replacement. 
I have cried non-stop for weeks, and I didn't know what was wrong with me until I realized that my pill had been switched!! First of all, what the heck man, and second of all.... very noticeable difference. I am unstable as anything and everything feels off."""
"This is a nightmare! I started to take this medicine  almost a month ago but I  had to stop it! It's been a month bleeding non stop! Crazy headaches, dizziness! I stopped at the white pills and so far bleeding!  Do not take this medicine! Its the worst!"
"""I was on Trinessa Lo and got switched to Tri-Lo-Sptrintec since Trinessa Lo has been discontinued. Honestly, what is this?? Like some other reviews mentioned, I start to bleed around week 3 of the pack, before the placebo. And the blood is really bright red, it looks abnormal. I don't understand what's happening to my body with this pill. I definitely have been way more emotional than usual. The one month where I managed to not bleed until my actual placebo, I had the worst cramps in my life (I've never been a crampy type) and I just felt miserable. 
After month 4 of being on this mess I'm looking for something else because this pill needs to be taken off the market. Low sex drive, unusual bleeding, hormones acting up - it's too much. Only thing, my acne has gotten better. But not worth it!"""
"""I can not sing the praises of Femynor birth control enough. No weight gain, mood swings were minimal the first few months. I went on Femynor to fix my hormonal acne about 7-8 months ago and it WORKED. No matter what I tried nothing worked for my acne and this did. Doctor told me I'd see l results in 6 months and my skin started clearing in 2. Now it's almost perfect rarely a break out besides some black heads which are way better then a face of white head breakouts. 
Only issue I've had is my cramps have been worse some months and my period has started early a few times and lasts a lot longer than it used to. Which if that's the only thing I deal with I'm still over the moon about this birth control. Recommend it to anyone with bad acne."""
"Been on this for about three months since they discontinued Trinessa and forced this pill on me and let me tell you this has easily been the worst three months of my life. I need birth control to keep me regular and keep my skin clear (which this pill is only ok at doing), but it is not worth the mental damage this pill is doing to me. I'm fine the first two weeks but as soon as I start week three I feel like I'm going crazy! I cry over everything and panic and become so anxious I need anti-anxiety meds and I even have extreme dark thoughts. As soon as I finish this pill pack I'm done for good because this is not worth it it's ruined all of my personal relationships and motivation for even succeeding in school. (Writing this on the first day of week three in case you were wondering)"
"I was on Ortho Lo for nine years and recently was switched to Tri Lo Marzia. The first week I was fine. I am now ending week 2 and am bloated, nauseous, and have cramps. I NEVER have gotten cramps since I've had my period at age 12 (now 25) and I'm not even near my period. I am trying to have a positive outlook but I already am worried about this pill"
"Sprintec threw me into a deep depression and made my panic disorder flared up. It got so bad that I lost my job. I'm now back on antidepressants after successfully being off them for a year. While on this pill I started taking the Xanax that my dr prescribed two years ago and hadn't need to use! I almost never had to take my Xanax until I started using this pill. I only took the Sprintec for 2 1/2 months. I wanted to try to stick it out and go three months like some reviews suggested but I can't afford taking the chance that it might not get better. If you have battled with depression or panic attacks in the past, I would avoid this birth control! Turned my life upside down"
"I switched from Ortho TriCyclen about 3 months ago to TriNessa when my health department was low on stock. All though so far proven effective in one aspect (no pregnancy or anything, and  I use it for protection), I also use for prevention of ovarian cysts which has proven INEFFECTIVE. I have constant, month long pain. Not only to top that I took Ortho for a year and within 3 months on TriNessa, I started at 105 lbs and gained 20! And no matter what I do the weight won't go away! I was wondering if any other ladies were having this problem and just about every review I've seen confirmed my suspicions. While it gets the job done (that is, pregnancy prevention), there are numerous other medications out there SO DO NOT TAKE THIS ONE."
"I used Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo, the brand, for 2 years. It's all I've ever used. I am 29 years old now and I am SO devasted that Jansen has discontinued this because it was too expensive to manufacture, which means they weren't making as much money as they wanted. But for me it is the best birth control pill out there! No weight gain, no breakthrough bleeding or mood swings, no pregnancy and I've never used any backup birth control or condoms- just the pill. I don't even know where to go now or what to use instead. Please bring back this birth control pill!! It's been so amazing. I was even willing to pay the $150 per month to get it out of pocket because I don't want to risk crazy side effects of any other birth controls."
"I was originally on previfem for about a year, and they recently switched me to Mononessa about a month ago. The first day I took it till the last day I took it I had upper abdominal pain on my left side. The pain would last about 10-20 minutes, and I would rate the pain a 7 on a scale from 1-10. I thought it was coincidence, but I didn't feel safe so I stopped taking the pills after 2 1/2 weeks. This one also made me gain 4 pounds in the short time I had been taking it. I requested to be put on Sprintec (this was my first prescription) and I have been doing fine since!!"
"""After trying five other birth controls including trinessa, I moved to mononessa in order to skip my periods.
I didn't gain weight, I didn't have skin/acne changes, I didn't have sex drive changes and I do not feel like I'm crazy like when I was on trinessa.
After five years of mononessa, my body began to breakthrough bleed when trying to skip periods.
I tried seasonique which is made to only have four periods a year and my skin went nuts!!!! Super oily skin and what not.
Just went back to mononessa... will never switch to anything else and would recommend it to anyone!"""
"Sprintec birth control pill may be like other birth control pills, I haven't tried any other ones yet but this one is making me absolutely insane! I have the worst mood swings, anxiety and depression! It cleared up my acne but my sex drive went down to almost nothing.  Extreme vaginal dryness and weight gain. My boobs did grow a whole cup size but they have hurt every single day for the last three packs. I am going to try Portia next after this pack is done. I can't take it anymore!"
"I highly do not recommend sprintec. I've used for about a month now and have had abnormal cramps and spotting all the time I've had bleeding 3 days straight THREE times from a month span from this birth control and it has made my mood swings terrible."
"I'm on my third month of taking Sprintec and it has it's pros and cons; however, the cons are bearable and not something I would stop taking the pill for since the pros are wonderful. I initially started this pill because on my last oc was out of control, causing me depression unlike no other. Not only has Sprintec reduced my feelings of depression, it has enlarged my breasts by a cup size and has cleared my skin. I don't have much acne to begin with but clearer skin was just an added bonus. The cons are tender breasts and recurring headaches but they're nothing a little Tylenol can't fix. I really enjoy this pill. Although there are more bad reviews than good, I would recommend at least trying this pill out."
"""Mononessa was my first contraceptive.
The first month was terrible. I was always nauseous and I would get super hungry but not able to eat due to the nausea. I had my period for around 4-5 days. It was light with minimum cramps. Month 2, my nausea started to go away and libido went up. Month 3, breasts grew and acne was gone. Never any mood changes, but weight gain of 5-10 pounds. I used it for about a year and went off of it because I stopped taking my pill on time. I switched to 3 different contraceptives until I went back to Mononessa. I used it for ~2 more years. About 10 months ago, I started having break through bleeding for about 2–3 weeks during my cycle and it just wouldn't stop. I had a bunch of imaging done for the abnormal bleeding and all results pointed to everything being ok. I think my body has just changed or something but I am retiring from this pill because of the bleeding. It was still, nonetheless, an amazing run though while I was on it. PS never got pregnant!"""
"I have been taking Tri-Sprintec birth control for about 2 weeks now. This is the first time I  have taken birth control, so like any person I came to check the reviews to see other people's experiences as well as asking friends and I truly believe that EVERY BODY is different. I was very hesitant about buying it after reading all the horrible reviews I read but still decided to give it a try. I have not had ANY side effects whatsoever from Tri-Sprintec, I am living my normal life just like before I started taking birth control, I haven't really noticed any changes in my skin, neither good or bad which is fine with me. I truly do recommend for people to give this birth control a try, don't be scared because of everything you read because like I said earlier everyone's body reacts differently. If you do go ahead and give it a try and you don't like it or it doesn't work for you just look for different brands there's nothing wrong with trying!"
"After reading these reviews, I realized I have gone through the same thing as so many other people on here. I was on Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo for years and absolutely loved it. My insurance stopped covering it and I got switched to Trinessa Lo. Trinessa Lo was great and I didn't even notice a difference. But now, both Ortho and Trinessa are discontinued and I was forced into switching to Tri Lo Sprintec. I was really hopeful it would turn out ok like it did with Trinessa. NOPE! Tri lo Sprintec was awful! I only took it for a week before I had to absolutely stop taking it. 1.) I broke out in acne very badly 2.) I got bad head aches and slight nausea 3.) I had pretty annoying mood swings, but the worst side effect for me was the absolutely crippling depression and feeling of sadness and absolute dread. I was paralyzed with depression and sadness on this pill and cried every single day. I couldn't even give the pill a chance for a full cycle because it was just too awful."
"Started with bad headaches, then bleeding off period (spotting at first, then heavy bleeding for two weeks), then severe depression (have been crying for four days).  I've not experienced side effects like this from any drug before.  This was the first month I'd taken Tri Sprintec (has taken Tri Nessa for three years with zero side effects).  My insurance company switched ... really wish they hadn't."
"I started taking Ortho Tri-Cyclen 20 years ago. A couple of years back, I was switched to TriNessa, with no issues. Now, both Ortho Tri-Cyclen and TriNessa are no longer being made, so the pharmacy switched me to Tri-Sprintec. I was told that Tri-Sprintec is the exact same formula as TriNessa, and I was very obviously lied to. This medication has caused a red, bumpy rash all over my face. It's awful. I've had to stop taking it. I never had any problems at all with Ortho Tri-Cyclen or TriNessa. TriSprintec is horrible!"
"I gave Estarylla a 1 because of my side affects since starting it. Only good thing I can say about it is that I did not become pregnant while on it. Changed insurance last year & new insurance changed me to mononessa.  Remained normal with period right on track. Four months ago insurance changed me again, to Estarylla. Since starting Estarylla I have had extreme weight gain, increased gas to the point of constantly bloated, very dry skin & acne, mood swings, crying about things that wouldn't bother me normally, increased depression, anxiety, & cramping in my legs. Period became completely off track after years of being balanced. For 4 months I have not known what day I would start, & either heavy or so light, from 3-7 days and the worst cramps of my life. Went to my GYN last week and she told me I should have called her sooner. Told her I was trying to give it a fair shot. She changed me to something else & I can't wait to start it. Estarylla has made me MISERABLE! If you have another option try that first."
"I have taken sprintec for 4 months. The 1st couple months weren't bad. The only side effect I had was water weight gain. At first it was like 5lbs which wasn't too bad but each subsequent month it increased. By month 4 I put on 15lbs of water weight! My ankles and hands were swollen, my knees hurt so bad from all the swelling. And it's definitely all bloat/water weight because as soon as I start the inactive pills I start getting crazy night sweats and by day 5 of the inactive pills I'm back to my normal weight, 15lbs instantly gone, no more swelling, knees feel good for 2 days but as soon as I start the new pack Bam! Hello 5-15lbs. It's terrible."
"Sprintec is amazing. Period."
"Recently I was switched to Estarylla from Sprintec because my pharmacy decided to stop carrying it. The first 3 days were fine - headache free too. By the next week I was feeling anxious and really exhausted even when I was sleeping fine. Kind of like a mental fog deal. I usually take my pill before work, so tonight I took it with a bowel of Bran cereal- packed with B vitamins and I felt like my usual self. No anxiety or heart racing - I also cut out caffeine and any headache meds with caffeine included. I also felt anxious and not myself on other pills too, so I changed my diet to stuff that was high in B and E vitamins and started taking a multi vitamin - it seems to really help with depression and the anxious feeling that comes with taking BC. I'm going to stay on this for a bit and hope for the best but just remember all BC pills have side effects. Estsarylla isn't the best but it certainly isn't the worst..."
"I feel like most of these reviews are negative because mostly, the people who review medications online have had a negative experience. I'm on here to say that tri lo marzia has worked well for me. It did take 3 months to "stabilize" in the sense that I've had 2 months of daily spotting. After those 2 months though my body got used to the dose and, actually my skin improved. Moodiness near period happens, I find myself near crying 3 days before my placebo pills, but overall not a terrible shift in mood."
"Everybody, EVERYBODY reacts differently to medications, especially birth control! I read all of these negative comments and popped the first pill and I'm still breathing y'all! I'm on week 3 and my face is SO CLEAR. and it's literally like glowing lol. I suffer from mild depression and this doesn't touch it. Not pregnant, didn't gain weight, sleeping ok lol. I love this pill. You never know how you will react to a medication until you try it (with the permission of your doctor.) if you don't like it- great, then be responsible , throw it out and use a backup birth control like condoms and spermicide until you get into the doctors office. :)"
"Tri-lo-sprintec was a very effective birth control for me, no problems or side effects whatsoever just minor headaches at first."
"This is my second week on this birth control, switching from the Paragard IUD. The pros about this brand is that I don't have any mood swings, (which were really terrible on other birth control methods,) my skin looks flawless, and I've lost a few pounds, (mostly from lack of appetite due to headaches and nausea symptoms.) I've also noticed a decrease in vaginal discharge that I always use to have. The cons are definitely the intense headaches that are debilitating on some days. A lot of fatigue, nausea and lack of appetite symptoms. The side effect that concerns me the most is the chest discomfort. It almost feels like I'm short of breath with the occasional increased heart rate. Also feels like a bad heartburn. It's hard to explain. I'm going to go through the pack and see how I feel. Hopefully these symptoms are just from by body adjusting to the pills. We will see."
"I want to start by saying that I never ever leave reviews, but after reading what a negative effect this pill had on so many women I felt like I had to.  I've been on Sprintec for a year now and I've never experienced any negative side effects, no weight gain/loss, no headaches or nausea, no anxiety or depression or mood swings.  It did not make my boobs grow cup sizes (unfortunately) lol and it cleared up my skin. I totally understand that BC is different for everybody, but since I am the minority in this...I just wanted to share my positive experience with it."
"I've tried many birth controls and Ortho Tri-Cyclen is incredible. I don't get acne, my appetite hasn't changed, was a little moody when I first started but it went away and now I feel great! I feel like it's helped my mood. I do have nausea every once in a while. Sometimes it's bad and sometimes it's mild. I also have vaginal dryness but these things don't bother me compared to the other side effects I've had with other birth controls"
"Alright ladies so first of all, I want to start off by saying everyone's body is different! I began taking Tri Lo Estarylla about 9 months ago as both a birth control method and acne treatment. I don't feel comfortable putting in an IUD, something in my arm, and I've heard horror stories about the shot. So for both for BC and acne, it has worked pretty darn great! Before this I had HORRIBLE acne, it was so painful. After about 3 months of taking these, it's diminished to about 1-2 zits. Also, my boyfriend and I have sex about 3 times a week. We use the pull out method also, but this is a great 2nd backup! No pregnancies. HOWEVER. The other side effects I've been getting are erratic mood swings, nausea, random cramping and weight gain (about 15 lbs). My periods overall I want to say have stayed the same? That's why I give it a 5/10. Honestly, it might take a few months to kick in because your body might not accept it for a while. If after 3-4 months it's still cruddy, change it! Please!"
"I LOVE mili, I  had such bad cystic acne before I started taking this pill. I  had literally tried everything. Now my skin barely ever gets any breakouts, my skin is so clear besides my scars & i never thought I'd see it this way! I have had no side effects from this and I have been taking it for 2 months. This month my pharmacy changed me from Mili to Estarylla and I had the WORST anxiety , panic attacks, I was on my tippy toes 24/7 about everything. I cried a lot & I only took the pill for 2 weeks. I could not continue I had to call my pharmacy and order another pack & they made a note to NOT switch my birth controls again"
"I had to stop taking it. I was really irritable and moody. Gaining weight as well"
"Personally , I LOVE Mili birth control for my acne. I had terrible acne & tried everything to get rid of it.  I  was on this BC for 2 months & my acne cleared so much to the point where I literally had none. My pharmacy recently switched me to Estarylla & I'm only the second week in & I have experienced depression & SEVERE anxiety that comes along with constant panic attacks. I will not be continuing it."
"I originally started my birth control journey with Sprintec, then Nuevo ring, the IUD, then back to Sprintec. I started with pills then would forget, the ring made my cycles too long, the IUD made my skin have the worst break outs...so my doc said how about Sprintec? I was prescribed this pill mainly for my concern over my skin and length of cycle. Currently it has been four months on sprintec and it has made a HUGE (positive) impact on my skin  (almost clear now) and length of cycle (went from 9-12 days to 4-6 days). My advice would be to give this pill time and be patient with it. It has changed my view on BC pills vs. other formats."
"""The reviews with “1” rating are accurate. I've been taking birth control for a few years now. Never had a problem before. I've been taking 
femynor for now 2 months. I've had an irregular period since I was 14. I've been spotting non stop since I've started this one. I feel hungry nonstop. My moods swings are RIDICULOUS. I was noticing my emotions were intensifying. I felt depressed and it's not me. I'm a happy spirit. If you're experiencing this get off this PILL! 
Get a lower dosage. 
I caused a lot of arguments between my significant other & I while on this."""
"I've tried different types of birth control before, never really got any changes until I try Sprintec!  I was giving them as a replacement for Jasmine,  but sprintec is THE WORST!!!!  Pain in my stomach, and such a bad depression, I've been crying for the whole time, like 7 times a day, reduced the sexual desire (I guess that's why no babies, cuz there is no sex). I stop taking them on the day 18 and I've gone back to NO crying mode! Burn the pack"
"Increased depression and headaches all the time. Got rashes around my face and broke out really bad. Anxiety and mood swings off the roofs. Still have cramps and gained so much weight. No sex drive what so ever and feel nausea all the time."
"I have been on Tri-Sprintec BC for about 6 months. Due to the fact the other BC I was on was discontinued. Since taking this bc my periods have been HEAVY and last anywhere from 1-3 weeks! Huge blood clots and having to change my tampon every hour. In between periods I would get yeast infections too! I discontinued using the BC about a week ago and will switch to another once I can get in with my dr."
"""I've been on this pill for a week and my anxiety is HORRIBLE, I mean chest hurting and everything HORRIBLE. Almost to the point where I can't handle it. 
I suffer from anxiety normally but never to this extent so I will definitely be quitting this pill and requesting another one."""
"Tri-lo-sprintec is an effective birth control, but awful side effects.  Just like many reviewers, I have been on Ortho tricyclen lo and subsequently Trinessa lo for years... And loved it.  Both are manufactured by Janssen and both have been discontinued.  So I was defaulted to Tri-Lo-Sprintec.  I hate this drug.  It should not be considered an equivalent to the Janssen brands.  I have been dealing with acne, weight gain, and zero libido.  I gave it 3 months, and do not see improvement.  I'm hoping there is a better alternative to the Janssen brand after speaking with my doctor.  Good luck, gals!"
"""DO NOT TAKE Sprintec !!! It was too many hormones for me. I remember days were I wouldn't even get out of bed because of how much pain my body was in... 
I would take it at 10am everyday and by 11:30am I was angry , my head would spin/I was dizzy and my vision was so bad some days it was impossible to drive. Sprintec is terrible . I had headaches so bad my eye lids hurt (sharp head pains) , impaired vision, the nausea was debilitating, my breast were swollen for 4 months. & it made me angry and combative for no reason. DON'T TAKE IT
It almost ruined my relationship and my family members didn't want to be near me. I would pick fights and I was depressed for months . Crying everyday, suicidal thoughts, picking fights with people... and I really thought I needed help . I even went as far as to reaching out to therapist. But all along it was that birth control..
It's the worst contraceptive pill. 
Now, I am one Camila and so far it isn't bad."""
"""I had used the shot and the implant. After a 2 year hiatus I wanted to try the pill. 
This pill has increased my appetite. I would starve (off the pill) from stress. I had nausea the first few days but had it off the pill too. My stubborn cystic acne reduced.  I felt some anxiety the first few days but nothing new. My bra size went up.  I get headaches sometimes but its probably my caffeine dependency. I got asked if I lost weight
 I've had worse side effects off other medicines and vitamins and stress than right now. The only reason I'm not rating higher is ‘cause  I'm used to “heavy duty” birth control. Those methods feel brutal but I had peace of mind knowing there'd be no need to get an abortion. That's why I can't give it a 9 or 10.  
It may be right for some women's bodies. I mean I'm super sensitive to side effects but I've been normal.  So try it for a week and stop if it's bad, don't stick with it."""
"My gyn prescribed Tri-Sprintec to help alleviate my bad cramps. The first week was ok, I experienced a bit of nausea but luckily I never had any vomiting. By the second week everything had gone downhill. I started experiencing cramps daily, backache, fatigue, increased anxiety and dizziness. A couple of times I felt my heart rate increase but it didn't last long. The cramps and backache were so bad that I went to the hospital thinking that I had appendicitis! I told my gyn and she advised me to finish the pack and then I didn't have to take them anymore, but the dizziness was so bad for me that I didn't take the last two active pills. I also experienced vaginal dryness which caused painful sex, as well as a loss of sexual interest. Today would have been my last active pill for the pack, and while I'm still feeling a little dizzy and even having some slight vision blurring (kind of like dry or tired eyes) I feel better than I have the past two weeks."
"I went on Tri-nessa about a year ago for multiple reasons such as: acne, heavy periods, and just being sexually active. I went to my regular physician and she prescribed me Tri-nessa. After about 3 weeks on this pill I started noticing changes, I was gaining weight which was strange for me as I stay around the same weight all the time, I was breaking it worse than before and it didn't show any signs of lightening up, and my emotions were extremely hormonal I could be laughing one second and crying the next. Not to mention I felt as if I was going to throw up every morning. I thought maybe this was my body getting used to the hormones so I decided to give it more time. About two months in all of the symptoms were only getting worse. I had enough and got off of the pill. Within days my mood was back to normal and I was no longer nauseous. But my skin has never been the same, I break out worse than before now and I have hyperpigmentation which I never had before. Absolutely do not recommend."
"The first three days of the first couple of months on Tri-sprintec are a bit  weird.. mood swings and nausea but then your body quickly adjusts. My period comes around the same time every month, but I am heavier the first day. I've gained a little bit of weight but nothing too major, also sex drive is the same but it can get a little dry down there.  Overall, I have no major complaints with it and I've been on for 8 months."
"Been on Estarylla for a few months now and have had little to no problems. I was on Mono-Linyah before which sometimes caused me to pass large tissue chunks during my period (that freaked me out). But so far so good with Estarylla. The first month I bled pretty randomly which was kind of annoying but that's expected when starting any birth control I think. Sometimes I get a tiny bit of spotting if I skip when my period should be. But nothing more than that. My skin is normal, my weight is normal. I think the only thing is that I am more sweaty and have to load up on deodorant more than I had to before."
"I have been using sprintec for almost a year now, my acne has cleared up but not fully gone. My periods are shorter from 7 days a week to 4-5 and the bleeding is a lot less with no cramps!! I didn't really get any bad side effects in the first few months of taking it like everyone else says & never had a pregnancy scare. Would definitely recommend!"
"I have been on Estarylia birth control since January when my doctor switched me to a less hormone pill due to some issues I was having with my previous birth control. I have been experiencing headaches, fatigue, weight gain and depression. Then On Feb 26 2019 I found out I was pregnant - yes I got pregnant on Estarylia. I do not like this pill and the way it made me feel. I am usually pretty happy and this pill has changed me in multiple ways."
"I've been taking norgestimate/ethinyl as birth control for 3 months now. I never actually read reviews for it, if I had I probably would've never started it! This was my first ever birth control method. I take this medication to prevent pregnancy since I am very sexually active.  I take my birth control at 9:30PM everyday. The only symptom I've noticeably experienced is a huge increase in depression. Most of these reviews are about extreme nausea and migraines but I have NOT experienced any of that! I take the lowest level I can to avoid weight gain. I lost 60 pounds previous to starting BC pills. I do have a loss in appetite. It's been a great form of birth control for me but these reviews definitely make me nervous. I do suffer with depression regularly. My periods aren't as dragged on as they used to be. Period only lasts about 4 consistent days and was done! Only experienced cramps for about an hour the first day."
"Was told that tri sprintec was the same as trinessa, but boy we're they wrong. They might have the same actives but they must have different inadditives or something else in them because I broke out with so many under the skin pimples it hurt to talk. I assumed it was because of the sudden change in BCs but for 4 months I continue to get these painful nodular pimples. The only time I get relief is when it time for my period! Why does trinessa have to discontinued!"
"Okay so I started sprintec a month ago and just came to the conclusion today this is not for me. I started off with nausea and headaches and then began feeling extremely anxious and angry. WELL it just hit me today that I started this new birth control a month ago. If you have anxiety or depression normally I would be extra careful of this specific BC. actually a lot of birth controls haven't worked for me but this ones been especially crappy."
"Estarylla is the WORST BC ever!! My pharmacy filled this instead of my normal BC cause they are generic. They have done this a few times and this is the 4th time I have used this brand. I have my period since day one (every time they switch me to this)... and my cycle is never off with my normal BC. I am emotional, super dehydrated, having panic attacks, weight gain, my acne cleared up but I am not myself. Very depressed and my kids and my BF noticed. I'm refusing to take the rest and I'm already 3 weeks in. Never again will I take these."
"Obviously people are more prone to share bad experiences than good but I had a quite awful experience with sprintec. Switched from Femynor which was giving me terrible cystic acne after having perfect skin "naturally" and it got a lot better (still there but not as bad) with Sprintec but slowly over the last 6 months I have been so "spaced out" and disconnected from reality. Anxiety has amped up so much without me even realizing it until I remembered how good it was the months before I started this one when I had the extremely bad skin. If you're prone to disassociating I'd stay away. Unfortunate because the other side effects seem to be nonexistent :/"
"I've been taking this birth control for 5 months I would start bleeding way before I'm suppose to get my cycle and also I wouldn't have any type of sex drive and when I did have sex I was very dry down there . Then sometimes I would start spot bleeding this is annoying I don't like feeling like I'm going to get my period so often I'm going to talk to my Gyn and take me off this brand"
"""My doctor put me on Femynor after I spent almost 2 years trying to purge out Depo (the shot.) I have been on it for about 10 months now. 
Pros: I don't bleed very much anymore. My cramping is not as bad as it was before. I have not gained weight from this pill. 
Cons: My period is so out of whack. I always start early, and never stop until a couple days into the new pack. Sometimes I start a week early, other times I start on the first week. It is not just break-through bleeding, I have normal bleeding and all of the other symptoms. I am moodier than normal. I am more fatigued than I usually am. It did not help my acne, but it also did not make it worse. I am gassy. The blood is very thick and is always full of dark clots. Also the blood is very dark and brown, which I have always had very light red blood without clots."""
"I had been on several forms of BC from Patch to Nuvaring before I relaized low hormonal pills were right for me. So from Ortho tri cyclen Lo (which was lovely) to Trinessa-Lo (when ortho was discontinued) i went and was very satisfied! Then, Trinessa was also discontinued and I was placed on this horrible pill. I gave it 2 months before the constant periods, horrible cystic acne (both previous pills helped my acne), and lack of appetite broke me. Actually, what really caused me to quit was the depression and suicidal thoughts. I've had depression but have never seriously though about self harm or death until this BC. Tri-Lo Sprintec is THE ABSOLUTE WORST"
"This birth control is the worst. When I first started taking it everything was fine. Around week 2 or 3 of my first pack I got migraines every day. Those have subsided on my third pack but the nausea is awful!!! I take it about 10:00 at night and around 5:00 pm the next day I start feeling feeling awful!! Periods are not nearly as bad as usual. Barely any cramps."
"On day 6 of this birth control after using Trinessa or the past few years and thos Tri-Lo-Sprintec is awful.... I have been nauseous every day. I've had a spike in anxiety and cannot sleep well as I feel anxious all night as it feels my heart rate will not slow like it should.  My appetite has diminished and I believe I've lost a few pounds. I will be calling my primary tomorrow to switch off of this. I was prescribed Trinessa anyway so I don't know why pharmacy would give me this without my consent for the switch or at least an explanation as to why and then they refuse to take it back. This should not be permitted.  Do not take this pill. It has wrecked me and made it difficult for me to function normally."
"I was hesitant to try Tri-Lo Sprintec after hearing its bad reviews. I had switched from pill to pill, trying to find the best one. I was using the pill to treat bad cramps and horrible acne. First I was on Falmina (a generic of Aviane), which made me break out even more. Then I switched to Nikki, a generic of Yaz. It helped with skin but made me severely depressed so I switched to Tri-Lo Sprintec... and never looked back. I've had fantastic skin ever since (even better than on Yaz!), haven't gained any weight, and haven't had any bad PMS or hormonal mood changes. I haven't exhibited signs of depression as a result of the pill. I had minor headaches in the beginning but they did not last long and don't happen anymore. I absolutely love this pill. It's improved my sex drive, mood, and skin substantially, and I am so thankful—I feel better on this pill than any other! LOVE THIS! Don't listen to every single review—give it a try, it might be right for your body."
"So , I am 27 and suffer with PMDD....I'm currently weaning off of prozac because I am now covered in hives.  Anyways I give this medicine a few stars because it prevented pregnancy. However, I had headaches every day for the few months that I was on it, my brother wanted me to get an MRI... sometimes the headaches were so bad I couldn't see and had to lay down at work. I also experienced extreme hangovers, for 24 hrs or more - even if I only drank 1 beer. I do not recommend this medicine.  I take orthotricyclin and it seems to be working fine. I also took orthotricyclin when I was 17 for a few years. I'm reading up on some herbs now for PMDD. Good luck."
"""This is my second review, I was put on this birth control because my prior one gave me irregular periods. 
This birth control is the worst, but it is seriously amazing for my periods. But has destroyed my face. I never had an issue with pimples or acne until now. I now have over 50 pimples on my face and it's depressing. 
I have now been switched to something norg-ee which is suppose to be a lower dose version. Since my Gyno is surprised that a pill designed for acne is causing acne."""
"I was told Tri Sprintec had the same ingredients as tri nessa (tri nessa has been discontinued) so I went with it. I'm on day 6 and it's been AWFUL! I feel nauseous and sick all day long. My mood is out of control and I get these horrible headaches that won't go away. I didn't want to believe the reviews because everyone reacts differently, but this truly is the worst pill I've ever been on. I don't even think I can finish the pack TBH. Nothing like tri nessa."
"I have not started this pill yet...all the reviews I have read have negative comments!I am scared to get these negative symptoms like everyone else has been having!I am going to give it a chance and hope it helps with acne and period pain!I am also praying that I don't have 3 week bleeding in my first month...wish me luck!!!!"
"I've been on this pill for over a year, and these reviews seem dramatic but everyone is different. For me, this pill is reliable and has cleared my acne, my moods are normal, nothing seems different than before. I feel like your body just takes time to adjust to medication. I see reviews saying they only took it for a week and felt bad, maybe you're still adjusting or maybe your doctor prescribed you the wrong pill. Keep in mind everyone's body is different"
"I got switched to this by my pharmacy when's Trinessa Lo was discontinued. I'm finishing my third pack and have had a terrible experience with this pill! I'm 27 and have had breakouts in places on my face that have never broken out before. I feel more depressed and anxious than ever. My head feels foggy and I just don't feel like myself. Not to mention my period is still irregular- sometimes not coming until 4 days into the placebo week, or this time coming 4 days before the Sunday of the placebo week. Not good when part of the reason for taking is to regulate. I tried to give this brand a chance but am switching ASAP, maybe even to IUD since I can't find a brand. Anything but Tri lo Marzia."
"PLEASE LISTEN TO THESE REVIEWS! THE WORST BC PILL EVER. I'm 18 and was getting terrible migraines so my doctor prescribed this pill in order to help with them. The pill did help with them but that is about the extent to which these pills did something good for me. The first 2 months of taking these pills I experienced Nausea EVERY morning. I also started experiencing actual panic attacks which I had never had before. The first 3 months I didn't experience a weight gain so I thought I lucked out but nope.. In about 3 weeks I gained over 8 lbs without a change in my diet or life style. For the past month I have been eating healthier and exercising to try and shed the lbs but nothing seems to work. I am also bloated all of the time. My anxiety and depression have been crazy lately and I just do not feel like myself. Tomorrow is my last day on this pill and I could not be happier. Please do not take this pill."
"I've been on this pill for about a year now. I've always had great skin and only minor breakouts but after a few months of taking this birth control I've developed cystic acne. I tried numerous cleansers and treatments and found them all ineffective. I finally went to my dermatologist and he said to immediately switch brands. My period is the same as when I wasn't on birth control, not any shorter and still get cramps. I don't think there's a positive thing I can say about it."
"I've been on this since 2015. My doctor recommended it over my previous Ortho Tri Cyclen since it is the generic form which I was on for about 3 years before. I have had severe acne flareups but I rarely get any pimples nowadays. Also very effective birth control. I take it everyday around 9 am when I wake so its easy to remember."
"I was previously on trinessa-lo which was amazing BTW for two years and my insurance switched me to this hideous pill tri-lo-sprintec or whatever due to my previous brand being discontinued. I'm currently on day 12 and man, I've never been so nauseous! Especially at night!!! I rarely eat, I've lost 7 pounds already (woo freakin hoo) but this nausea is no joke specifically with meats. But other than that no other issues. I'm going to finish this pack and see how it goes but if nothing changes, I'm gonna stop completely and seek other options."
"I've tried A LOT of birth control pills, and nothing has worked as well as Sprintec has for me. 3 months in, and I feel great! The first few weeks I did experience some nausea, but I have not had any other bad side effects. My skin looks amazing, and I am very acne-prone. My periods have went from 10 days to 3 days. I do not have cramps on this pill. I highly recommend trying it if you have bad acne and long and heavy periods."
"This is the WORST birth control I have ever taken. My pharmacy switched me to this and I've only been on it a little over a week and I have horrible symptoms!! Bloating weight gain, anxiety, oily skin, tiredness, mood swings, anger, diarrhea, you name it. I have never had a birth control this bad in my life. Do NOT take this!!"
"This pill man. I have been taking Sprintec since December after being on LoLoestrin for about a year. I'm going to start with the pros, I have regular periods and this is super cost effective. That being said...I can't handle the anxiety triggered by this medication anymore. Initially, I was feeling nauseated/dizzy and the breast tenderness was horrible for the first month and a half. I decided to give this pill a fighting change and thug it out for three or so months. Having always suffered from some sort of anxiety I tried to deal with the intensifying of my panic attacks as my body became accustomed to this medication but so far the symptoms seem to be getting worse instead of better. I'm not saying I'm unable to function but when I start having palpitations at a grocery store because it's crowded on a weekend I know something isn't normal. Everything else about this pill was fine, I didn't gain weight or get any acne it just doesn't agree with my body chemistry."
"I mean, I didn't get pregnant thanks to this, but I had been debating getting off hormonal BC and this made the decision VERY easy! I gained 10 pounds in a month (while exercising regularly and on a diet that I follow strictly), was insanely depressed and had awful mood swings, HORRIBLE nonstop acne breakouts for the whole month like I was a middle schooler again, and absolutely zero sex drive. For the love of god STAY AWAY from Sprintec!"
"I absolutely love this pill. Helped clear up my acne and gave me no major side effects. The very first day I took it, I had horrible nausea but it never came back after that."
"Felt the need to come on here and say something positive about this pill! I was on Tri-Nessa for about a year and was beyond happy with it. I started birth control with Mono-Nessa and broke out horribly in hormonal cystic acne. Tri-Nessa cleared my face, however, I unfortunately still deal with scars. One month, my pharmacy handed me Estarylla instead of my normal Tri-Nessa and I was worried sick. After experiencing horrible acne and finally finding a pill that worked for me, the last thing I wanted to do was switch up again, especially after reading these reviews. I decided to try it out for a month and much to my relief, it works out GREAT! My skin looks even better than before and the only thing I have noticed has been moodier PMS."
"""I've been taking this medication for 3 weeks and I'm not totally sold on it.
Early pros: I don't feel as anxious 
Early cons: severe nausea, headaches, diarrhea, increased acne, tender breasts.
I've tried almost every birth control on the market.. this certainly isn't the worst but it's still not a winner. 
I can't wait till they come out with a birth control for men ;)"""
"Triggered intense anxiety which led to derealization and panic attacks. Also caused horrible acne. Had quit taking it and start taking Prozac."
"So I was prescibed Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo and they gave me Tri Nessa Lo which I've always done great on. Was on for 2 years now the pharmacy switched me to this Tri Sprintec Lo because my other was discontinued. I'm almost half way in this pack and I am having terrible mood swings even the slightest has set me off. On top of that I had stopped my period after being on the non active pills for the Trinessa well when I first started in this pack or Tri Sprintec Lo and 2 days later I started bleeding bright red blood. I hate this pill but cannot get in to see my obgyn. I just want to feel normal again and on top of that I've had a non stop headache. They are not the same as tri nessa -ortho tri cyclen lo. I would not recommend these to my worst enemy!"
"""Okay, I was really nervous to take Estarylla because of all the bad reviews and I normally take Trinessa. Anyways, after I ran out of Trinessa, I decided to put on my big girl jeans and try out Estarylla. If the pill was gonna be bad for me, I was gonna stop taking it and request another birth control. 
When I took the first pill, I had a slight headache, but I still went to all my classes. By my third pill, I think I had a lil depression but I couldn't tell if it was the pill or just my college classes being tough on me. Regardless I still got my work and extracurricular activities done. 
Currently, I'm on Week 3 and I'm still alive!!! No headache, stomach pains, depression. I'm good. I think you, reader, need to be reminded that our body reacts differently to certain medication. Also my acne isn't bad either, my face is actually clearing up. Just know every lil pill is different. Good luck!"""
"I was on Trinessa but since it has been discontinued I switched to this. Its working great for acne on my face but I am getting back acne more than usual. The main problem I am experiencing with this birth control is that I am so tired all the time. No matter how much or how little sleep I get I feel like a zombie."
"Sprintec really worked miracles for me. I used to have terrible cramps that wouldn't go away no matter what I did and I would be throwing up for hours and unable to go to school. But now I get an extremely light periods and get no cramps at all.  I do know that different birth controls work better for different people though just because it works well for one person doesn't mean it'll work that well for you but if you are considering trying this I would give it a go"
"Terrible. Woke up every month throwing up and felt absolutely terrible. Made me totally sick."
"this is my first experience with birth control and I am 18 years old. The 1st week was fine but the beginning of the 2nd week was horrible. I cried like I have never cried before. It is a horrible pill  for me and I would not recommend. I ignored all the reviews before taking the first pill and I was wrong to do that. This messes with all of your emotions and causes depression and anxiety."
"Tri sprintec has been the best birth control for me in a really long time. I've had it for three months now. I don't have any mood swings and my boobs are back to there normal size from taking a birth control before that shrunk them. I do eat a lot more and also my periods last weeks I'm on week three of bleeding and it's been like that since I started. My pharmacy can't get tri sprintec anymore and want to offer me norgee but I'm VERY specific in what birth control I have to take."
"I took these pills for a year and I could notice the changes in my mood, I also was depressed, when I have always been a person that hardly cries until I started these pills. I cried for NOTHING even the stupidest thing. Also I was dry all the time. The only good thing about them was that all my acne went away and my skin looked fine. But I do not recommend them at all. Then I switched to microgestin 5 months ago but I am now reading the reviews and people complain about the same. So I am switching of pills again"
"I've used birth control since I was 14, now am almost 19 and my primary use is cycle regulation with acne control. I was on Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo for a while and loved it before my pharmacy randomly switched me to Tri Lo Sprintec. I was scared at first and although it kept up with what I wanted from the pill to begin with, It's been around a year or two on this generic pill and I HATE it. I gained 40lbs, I have severe anxiety, I'm depressed, moody, and I eat almost everything in sight ever since I was put onto this pill. Just recently I've been spotting in between cycles as well, and I'm wondering if the weight gain from this  pill has made it less effective since it's just the Lo version. Definitely talking to my gyno or PCP about alternative birth control methods next visit. If your pharmacy attempts to put you on this pill and you have the ability to switch, DO IT. I just want to be me again."
"I've used Tri-Cyclen for over 3 years with absolutely no issues.  I would get a few pimples a month no big deal, I've always had acne prone skin.  I've dealt with anxiety issues and depression a few years ago but I haven't had any issues with it since. So my pharmacist tells me they no longer carry Tri-Cyclen and they only have Tri-Sprintec.  Let me tell you I am MAD.  I had absolutely no warning it was changing and that it would be the exact same.  That was a huge lie.  I have been taking it for a whole month now and I get deep cystic pimples every day on my cheeks.  And my anxiety and depression has come back so hard I don't even want to leave my house.  Seriously this is the worst thing that could have ever happened please for the love of god do NOT TAKE THIS.  Throwing it in the trash."
"I was taking Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo for about 5 years and loved it until I got switched to Trinessa Lo due to having to pay cash for it. I was nervous but fortunately the transition was unnoticeable and I continued to take it for 5 years. In December 2018, my pharmacy switched me yet again to Tri lo Sprintec and I did not know until I got home and couldn't return the 3 months supply. Let's just say, I was right to be nervous about the switch...I HATE IT !! It's been 2 months and I have been eating everything in sight which in turns makes me feel bloated all the time. I've never experienced such crazy mood swings, I feel depressed and not like myself at all. I was hoping to just suffer through the 3 months and then try and find Trinessa Lo again. After looking around the Internet, I just found out it's been discontinued. Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo too !!! Now I don't know what to do because I'm afraid to try another BC and risk having worse side effects than I right now"
"I've been on and off Sprintec for two years. Even after missing multiple pills I have still never gotten pregnant. I must say that it has doubled the size of my boobs, even my boyfriend has noticed. They are sore and full. I' also always hungry but I haven't ever gained any weight. Would recommend."
"During the time I took this medication I gained nearly 25 lbs with  no change in my eating and exercising habits. Towards the end of my nearly 2 year experience, I began to get horrible migraines very frequently. They were unlike any I had ever had before, I wouldn't be able to go on with my day if I started to devolop one and often times sleeping them off did not work. I believe it changed my mood drastically and caused excess anxiety and waves of depression. And the worst part, my sex drive was absolutely 0. Now that I have stopped taking this pill I have further realized how awful it made me feel! I just got Kyleena placed a few weeks ago and I'm hoping that will help me continue my path to feeling my normal self after 2 years. I gave this a 4 star because I never got pregnant while taking this correctly and it was easily accessible."
"So I'm not one to write a review about medicine or anything really but I had to share this. I started this medication in May and before I started it I had FLAWLESS skin, I never ever broke out. As soon as I began taking it, I broke out with cysts. I continued to take it in hopes of my body will regulate to it. Nope, I was left with cystic acne all over my cheeks, to make matters worse I had my wedding in a few months. I was getting about 5 painful cysts a week on this birth control. I have been off of this medication and my skin cleared up. I payed a lot of money and many trips to the derm to finally make my skin look normal. I wouldn't recommend, everyone's skin is different but I had a HORRIBLE experience."
"I've been on different BC for over 20 years and this pill is awful !!!! I've barely made it through month 3 and my family is ready to put me out on the porch ! Awful mood swings , everything makes me mad and not just angry but fuming rage. I've never had vaginal dryness in my life but do now ! My anxiety is through the roof and I feel an impending doom and depression. It's so bad I had a hard time seeing through what was going on and realizing it was this pill till I started reading the reviews. This made me as nuts as YAZ !"
"I'm 28 5'1 115lbs. CVS told me my usual oral contraceptive Sprintec had been discontinued. Pros: cleared my acne (purge for the first 2-3 months) cons: Gas, nausea, feeling hungry but every dish seems to make me nauseous, so I rarely eat much, but always feel hungry. Sometimes I'd sweat in my sleep (never had that happen before the pill) IRRITABILITY, MOOD SWINGS, 2 periods a month. When I skipped a pill and took double the next day, I ALWAYS end up arguing with a family member (Not like me) depression. Honestly after reading reviews and seeing how much side effects I have in common with other women just confirms I need to get off this pill ASAP. I didn't understand all these changes. I had severe acne, So I know what it's like to want to try anything to clear your skin. If you happen to end up here looking for acne reviews. I'd try something different if it's solely for the purpose of clearing your skin. Some days while arguing I felt crazy, shouting/crying."
"Like most of the other comments here I have had extreme anxiety, paranoia, depression and just not feeling like myself at all. Do not take this if you can"
"My teen daughter has been taking this pill for over eight months to regulate her periods since they would last longer days than normal. Her cycles are normal but she has developed depression, anxiety and hair loss. I took her to the doctor to switch to a lower mg. I don't recommend this pill at all."
"""TriNessa Lo was the first BC I've ever taken when I was 18. For starters, it worked as far as not getting pregnant goes. I took the pills for 4 months. The first thing I noticed was the first week of taking the pills I had SEVERE migraines. But the only time I noticed migraines was the first week I would start and the last week that I stopped taking the pill. 
 Second, I was VERY moody. I almost felt like a different person sometimes.
Third, my period is usually about 2-3 days, I noticed my periods started being about 4-5 days and a heavier flow. 
  Lastly, I gained a lot of weight in a short amount of time which was frustrating because I'm a healthy eater and active. In about a 2 month time span, I gained a little over 15 pounds. But with a little extra hard work I was able to lose about 10lbs. But then the next month that I started taking the pills again, the pounds came back. 
TO SUM IT UP (My experience):
*Migraines
*Moody
*Longer Periods
*Weight gain"""
"I was on Sprintec for about 2 years and then stopped taking it due to getting pregnant. Not the pills fault. My fault for missing pills. My body had never been in shape the way it was when I was taking Sprintec. I never experienced any of the side effects everyone else has experienced and it worked perfect for me even with my PCOS. I had tried other pills before and they all made me gain weight. I had never been as regular as I was with Sprintec and I was actually with a lot of energy at all times. I had really great skin which I had never had before. No painful periods. I will be getting back on this birth control soon and in all honesty I am excited about it.  I hope this time around it works the same as it worked the first time around."
"This is the worst birth control I've ever taken . When I first started taking it I had stomach aches, back aches,  I felt like puking and had headaches. My mood swings were so bad I've never ever felt this sad before and anxious. This will be my 2 month taking it and I just have  2 -3 more pills to take.  What I've noticed the in 2nd month is my breast have been sore and the pain hasn't gone away. I also feel a bit more bloated and  now after today I've decided to stop taking them and going back to novaring. Being depressed with headaches is what Sprintec is giving me and I thought it would go away by now"
"This pill is the worst. I've been dealing with postpartum depression and I was getting better with that. Then started taking this birth control everything was  fine for about 2 months then I noticed stuff started setting me off more & my mood was all over the place! Even right now I have super high anxiety, depressed, thinking irrationally, angry, & super irritable over the stupidest stuff. I haven't felt myself for a little while. My guy is starting to  say he doesn't like waking next to me because I get set off first thing in the morning with my racing thoughts & feeling cranky as heck & it last all day long. I love waking early I'm an early bird but lately I'm driving myself crazy & everyone else around me insane.  I've been a week off this pill & feel little difference but I do feel things getting a bit better. Be careful with this pill I do not recommend it at all. As soon as you start noticing you're mood, feelings, thought process or your world is changing stop taking it asap!"
"""As with every birth control, it should be stressed that every woman's experience with whichever birth control they decide on will vary because every woman's body is different. It should also be said that you have to remember that people are much more likely to review a more negative experience than a positive one, so take each review with a grain of salt until you try it out. You just kind of have to experiment unfortunately. So far though this birth control works for me. I've been on it for a month.
Pros so far: Cleared horrible acne a previous birth control caused me, ‘fuller' boobs, increased sex drive, No weight gain or loss
Cons so far: Cramping throughout the month and horrible cramping on placebo week, huge passing of blood clots also during placebo week
 It's not a bad birth control FOR ME. Ladies, don't be scared to try it. It may or may not work for you. But that's a risk you take with any birth control you go on."""
"I just finished taking one whole packet of sprintec and my breasts have started hurting. The pill did delayed for about a month and a week. When I started my period it was heavy. Overall this does prevent pregnancies as it should be doing. I haven't been depressed as some people are experiencing."
"I have been taking Teva's birth control for 5 years. It's a great medication and has been totally effective. No weight gain and symptoms. Makes my period totally predictable."
"This birth control works so well for me , yeah the first couple of months were tough. That's only because your body isn't use to the pill yet. I've been on this pill for 2 years now. Period is normal , no weight gain, sex drive is the same . Only down side is the PMS is wooorse , emotions all over the place . Once my period comes... all is good!! Hope this review helps some of you ."
"I sought this medicine out solely for clearing my acne. I have a natural cycle. My period comes like clock work and ends like clockwork as well. I want clear skin. I've tried dermatology care, anything for clear skin ranging from drug store to extremely high end products and nothing. This is my 2nd week taking this medicine and I can say my skin has ALREADY began a turn around. Now the side effects. Since day 2 I've been cramping. IDK if it's just my body adjusting but it's pretty annoying. The constant feeling your period is about to start and the cramps are ridiculous. I haven't had any dryness down there, actually just the opposite. It's strange. I'm having to wear a panty liner throughout the day. I'm willing to continue the meds. I've been taking ibuprofen for the cramps and just dealing. I really hope this doesn't mess my cycle up given I'm only taking it for my skin. I'm very leery of BC and how it effects the body and possibly fertility"
"I was on Trinessa Lo then suddenly it got switched to Tri lo sprintec and I've been on it since December of 2018 now it's February of 2019 and this pill has been HORRIBLE I haven't been able to eat I've been having nausea so bad I was scared to eat I gag every time I eat or smelled food even food that I loved. Then these very very heavy painful headaches came and the headaches felt like someone was beating my head with a bat around my period they got worse to the point I took pain pills. The pain pills did not help at all. My body also just has been feeling so off I've barely had a period it was so light and it starts on different days every time. I Have really bad anxiety now to the point my hand will shake and my heartbeat gets higher so I felt like I was having anxiety attacks. I have not gotten off yet I'm waiting til my next period to come so I can get off I do not recommend this"
"I'm on day 5 of this medicine. Yesterday I cried literally all day and I'm so anxious (absolutely terrible, hard to function). I'm going to switch ASAP"
"I am quitting this birth control immediately. I took Tri-lo-marzia for a month before I was switched to this for insurance. Both pills diminished my sex drive to where I almost NEVER want it. Which is insane because before the pill I would want sex 4-5x a week. Strangely enough, it has also made it incredibly difficult for me to get wet or orgasm... Which I can't believe is even a thing. I've probably O'd once since taking it. After taking this pill, my face broke out so bad. I'm getting pimples in places I never thought I could. I just woke up with a pimple by my EAR. This pill has made me very emotional. I have probably cried 10x this month for the most stupid reasons. This pill has me fed up with BC. It's not worth taking birth control if it's going to absolutely kill my sex drive and screw with my head and relationship. My review honestly sounds exaggerated but this pill literally did all of those things to me."
"Have also had horrible depression, anxiety, and weight gain on this medication. Took me 6 months to figure out it was the medication. This is a horrible birth control pill. I have been on several others with no negative effect."
"Came here looking for validation on all of my symptoms with this BC and wow, I surely got it! I have never felt so sad in my entire life! I've literally cried, if not every day, every other day! This is my 3rd month and after this pack I'm done! I can't continue to feel like this everyday. I was on ortho tri cyc lo over 10 yrs and Nuva ring a few months and have never battled depression. It did clear my acne, prevent pregnancy which are the only pros. I got longer periods 6-7 days that's about it."
"I've tried Junel Fe in the past and had rebound depression, moody episodes, and it was overall terrible for me. Although I was taking it with ~80% time accuracy, I still had breakthrough periods. My doctor prescribed this to me because A. I have menstrual acne breakouts and B. my cramps during my menstrual cycle were unbearable to the point I would have to leave school and work. I wanted to get an IUD, but because I'm rotating through my clinical year of school, there is simply no time. All-in-all, this medication was worked for me. I was under the impression that it would treat my acne, but about 1.5 months in, it has exacerbated it. Where I normally have 1-2 pimples/month, I know have 5-6/month. They take longer to resolve but I manage them well with OTC benzoyl peroxide, 10% at night and gentle washings 2x/day with a gentle cleanser. I don't have any mood changes, depression, nor menstrual cramps. So it solved one problem, and slightly increased another."
"I was on Ortho Tri-Clyclen Lo for 16 years. Never had any major problems or side effects. Just mild mood issues like crying on sappy commercials. Lighten and shortened my period. I can't speak to its effects on acne because my skin as always been clear with the rare occasion of a small pimple. But now some evil insurance or pharm co has decided to stop manufacturing Ortho Tri-Clyclen Lo and I've been switched to Tri Lo Sprintec and I'M TERRIFIED! The reviews I read were horrible! I model and can't afford any crazy break outs!"
"""This pill caused me to have PVC (Premature ventricular contractions) heart conditions. Even had to wear a heart monitor to figure out what was going on.  At first, I thought it was my anxiety. I would feel my heart ""skip a beat."" Particularly when I was excited or upset. Then it got to be any time. Hard to focus when your heart feels like it stops. 
I was on Tri-Lo-Estarylla prior, but the pharmacy gave me Tri-Lo-Marzia in its place for 2 months (out of stock of my original). On the 3rd month, they had the Estarylla in stock and I went back on that. Within two weeks, my heart stopped prematurely and then would be beating uncontrollably. Now I rarely ever have PVC incidents. 
I couldn't believe I was getting ready to deal with PVC the rest of my life (I'm 28), when in reality it was the birth control!
Now my pharmacy doesn't have Estarylla in stock and said it's going to be discontinued...great. Here we go again trying to find one that works without crazy heart palpitations!"""
"Even though this birth control clears your skin really good, it's the worst birth control it lowers your sex drive and causes dryness (which made it painful to have sex)... I was on it for a month and I was already experiencing the side effects... I stopped taking it after a month and it took a while for the side effects to go away..."
"I'm on my 3rd pack of Sprintec, and it's honestly not as bad as what other reviewers have said. It took me two tries with this birth control, where I took it for a little less than two months and experienced HORRIBLE depression and stopped taking it. I read a review saying to give it a go until 3 months, so I tried it again. I experienced the same depression the second attempt at taking this pill. HOWEVER, I stuck with it and the depression did subside by the third pack. Other than that, I switched to this birth control after experiencing super low sex drive and vaginal dryness on another pill. I'm happy to say that sex is much more enjoyable now, so as a whole this pill is pretty alright!"
"Overall, a decent and reliable birth control. It has reduced my periods to practically nothing except when on the placebo week. Very light bleeding, no cramping. The worst side effect I experience though, is migraines when I stop taking the active pills. Severe migraines that nothing seems to help. Frustrating, but not the worst side effect to deal with."
"I was on MonoNessa for about 3 years and it has worked great for me! I can see if affects everybody differently but for me it worked perfect. I always take the pill before bed. I get a lighter period every month with no cramping which I love. I had no side effects or crazy weight gain, However over the past 3 years I have gained a little weight but I don't think it was due to the pills. It was great at preventing pregnancy. I am currently not taking any birth control right now but if I do decide to again I will most definitely be on this again."
"OTCL messed me up. Before starting it, I was breaking out a lot. I was suggested OTCL, not only as BC, but also good for acne. I took this pill for a month and had to stop. I see reviews saying the first few months are brutal, but once you're past it, it's fine. But honestly, I couldn't even handle all the side effects anymore. My acne seemed to get worse? I started a full on period after week one - heaviest flow I have ever had in my life, 9 days long, horrible cramps (I normally don't get cramps). The mood swings - they were terrible. I would randomly just burst into tears over literally nothing. I felt anxious all the time, and whenever I was alone I felt very depressed. This is totally out of character for me! So I tried to tough it out and it only got worse. I finally decided to stop taking it, and wow. The difference is insane. Since the day I stopped I haven't had any of those symptoms. I truly do not recommended this birth control. It was insanely brutal on my body."
"Have not even taken this a whole month because it is terrible. The first day taking it I felt nauseous and had a headache. Side effects are awful and I am done taking this pill."
"I've always struggled with acne which is why I tried birth control for the first time. This is my third week on these pills and I've been breaking out with painful cysts. I've been crying for little things and have been having  constant mood swings..I just hope my acne doesn't get worse and the pills will do what they were suppose to do!"
"Do NOT get this pill. It was my first experience of taking a oral contraceptive and I began taking it for acne, cramps, and preventing pregnancy. it has not helped my cramps or shortening my period. Also it makes me throw up at least once a week, if not more, around 3 am. If I eat anything with sugar after 5 pm I'm guaranteed to throw up. It's been 10 months taking this pill also. It has been effective as far as preventing pregnancy and clearing my face up for the most part but I do NOT recommend this medication. I'll be switching to something else soon."
"I was put on Sprintec for severe period pain. Overall I've tolerated it well except for the first few weeks I had some fairly nasty nausea and it made me more prone to motion sickness, but it is a high estrogen pill. Aside from this I'm impressed with it; so far no break-through bleeds, cramping or moodiness. I'm satisfied with this pill."
"I have been on this birth control for over a year now and never in all my years have I experienced chronic yeast infections like I have with this pill. Not only that but I still have really bad hormonal acne. I have read up on the reasons birth control can cause yeast infections and my doctor is very aware of it the whole time. Tomorrow I have my one year hoping to switch to something better. Good news no pregnancies so at least that worked."
"I'm on my 8th month of taking sprintec. I take it to help with my adult acne. If you're taking it for the same reason, you need  to be very patient. I didn't get clear skin till month 7. Then tried to skip period so continued with pack8, but spotted for 10 days so stopped 4 days to get period then started a new pack. This, however affected my skin so I got a few pimples and skin was oily again but not that bad, so I'm hoping to get back on track. I take it every day at 8pm. If you're not seeing results just yet, be patient, you will. It does work for acne but it may take some time."
"I took this for 3 days & I had a panic attack for the first time in my life!!! This is the worst pill ever. Stop taking at the first sign of depression or anxiety."
"This medicine is horrible. I used to take Trinessa for several years but my pharmacy switched me to this one. It gives me constant mood swings and unbearable headache. It might be effective birth control because you won't be able to have sex at all."
"This was the best birth control option! I had debilitating periods before I started. On this pill, my cramps were a piece of cake, some cycles I didn't even get cramps! My breasts grew, skin looked great, no depression, anxiety, or mental health side affects. This is the only birth control that worked for me! Currently on tri-vylibra and I hate it.  I think I should be on the Tri-Vylibra Lo but I'm on the bigger dose one (has 0.035 of ethinyl estradiol instead of the Lo that has 0.025mg ethinyl estradiol) and I'm breaking out, TERRIBLE mood swings / depression, boobs didn't grow, and AWFUL nausea my first week or so. I want to go  back Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo !!!! I have no idea what I can use instead ;("
"This medication makes me nauseous and shaky and gives me headaches daily. I have PCOS and fibroids and I suffer from cramps daily and cervix pain and this birth control makes it so much worse. I do NOT recommend."
"I had been taking trinessa for years and I loved it! I suffer with adult hormonal acne and I found that medication to work wonders for my skin. Two months ago I was switched to Tri-Lo-Sprintec without any warning. Without altering my daily routine and diet (I'm pretty active and healthy) In just two months I have put on quite a bit of weight, I've lost so much hair and to make matters even worse, my acne flares have never been so horrific!! I'm experiencing giant cysts all over my chin, cheeks, and back, which are taking forever to heal! I have never been so disappointed in a medication before. It didn't work for me at all! I stopped taking it in hopes of some relief to my breakouts and my skin started clearing up FINALLY within a week of being off! And in a week I am already losing the weight I gained. I wouldn't recommend.  I am wondering now should I been on the Tri-Sprintec (generic of Trinessa)  not the Tri-Lo-Sprintec (generic of TriNessa Lo)"
"I was taking Tri-nessa lo and when I went back to the OGBYN for a checkup and refill, I was re-prescribed this 'generic' version (unknowingly). I started taking tri lo marzia about 2 weeks ago. And... I. HATE. IT. I don't even ever write reviews about anything, but this felt justified. Drove my anxiety up a wall. Crying for no reason. Depressed. Irritable and mad about stupid things. Doubting everything in my life. I cannot wait to switch over to my old birth control. This one just did not work for me at all."
"Very unsure how I feel about this pill.  I switched to it because my prior pill killed my libido but I am honestly thinking of switching back to it. Usually I am pretty normal with my moods but sprintec is making me more anxious and just feel off.  I have more acne than I have in 10 years which is annoying, it's going away but still not good, and like others, it's on my neck which is weird.  I don't notice much change in my libido currently to be honest, sometimes I think it's just up to my mood if I am wanting to be sexual or not.  I have noticed that I feel very bloated all the time.  I have been watching it carefully and not eating anything after 7 pm but during the day I feel really full and bloated.  I have a feeling I have gained 5-10lbs which really really irritates me as I am only 5 feet tall.  If this weight gain doesn't stop and my mentality doesn't mellow out soon I will be switching back to my pill before."
"""Had been on sprintec and never had any side effects. Switched to CVS because local walmart was to far from my new address and they gave ;me Femynor which is another generic.
Since I started this pill a month and  2 weeks ago, I've never stopped bleeding. Still I'm on period over for a month."""
"This is my 4th month taking birth control and it's been good so far I did notice that my breasts got bigger. The pill also regulated my period. I take it everyday at 4 o clock. I definitely believe it works best if you take it at certain time everyday."
"I got this pill bc they said it's generic of ortho-cyclen.  I was depressed first 2 weeks. Than depression was gone, my breats got bigger. I have been using this pill for 3 months. I gained 6 pounds but that because I might changed my diet. I don't like it. My sex drive got lower never had that in pill before. Generic pills even though they are suppose to be the same - I don't think they are the same. I honestly feel different I don't care what doctors and pharmacist says, I know my body, I feel weird that's why I'm changing this pill."
"I have been on this pill for about a year and a half now. I was originally on Mononessa but was switched to this generic one out of no where. I had suffered from anxiety and depression before but I had removed myself from the situations that made me tick. I was completely fine for months on Mononessa. Happier, healthier, and in a way better position. I started taking estarylla and everything came back. I never used to cry but now sometimes I cry up to 3 TIMES A DAY!! This pill completely reverted any progress I had made and it makes me extremely irritable. Originally I thought it was just me, but after some research my boyfriend and I found out it was this pill so I'm switching ASAP. Not only is it emotionally unhealthy but it also caused me to get terrible breakouts a week before my period until a week after. IT IS NOT WORTH IT TO GO ON THIS FOR CLEAR SKIN! DO NOT DO IT!!"
"I've been taking this birth control for about 3 months now and my side effects are horrible! When taking it at night it makes me feel a little nauseous but I continued thinking it would pass. So then after not liking the way it made me feel I took it off and on (missed a couple of days) well now I have completely stopped because of the dizziness, pain in my lower right arm, nausea and headaches. My dizziness came mostly during the night and would wake me from my sleep. This change from Tri Nessa to Tri Sprintec is the worse thing to happen to me! I have called my Dr. for a change, I cant do this med and I've had to even stay home from work bc of these symptoms."
"I started this medication and it was the first birth control I ever took. I was using it for my  hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) symptoms. The first day I experienced the worse mood swings of my life, but continued for another month. Until it started causing painful acne.I couldn't even talk because the acne surrounding my mouth was so bad. All the acne cleared up once I stopped the pill. DO NOT RECOMMEND. It ruined my life for the time I was talking it."
"""I have the same comments as the other ladies, this birth control pills are the worst for me, I was feeling depressed and anxious after and before my period. 
This was not normal!!!"""
"So I have been taking sprintec for a year now and at first I got a bit of nausea the first 3 weeks. Then there would be months I would not get my period at all or it would only last 2-3 days. Also, I was a very emotional and very good at communicating my feelings to others. I have lost many family members recently and I have not cried in months. I noticed a lot of women get “crazy” on the pill, but it did the total opposite of it to me. I am in the search for a new brand."
"I've been on this birth control for not even 6 months now and have been in the worst 6 months of my life. I've already had 2 panic attacks and severe anxiety that gets worst day by day. I haven't experienced a low libido but most definitely cannot take this pill with out a meal you will feel nauseous or like you will pass out. One thing is my menstrual cycle is regular but it's always been. Never taking this pill again!!!!!!"
"I have been on this pill for 2 months now, prior I was on Lo le estrin, which I was on my period constantly for even a month one time. This pill is great so far for my period but horrible for acne. I've never had acne, and now my face is in constant brake outs. I get a new zit everyday. I'm going to do the full 3 months and if the breakouts continue , advise my Gyno I need to go on a different pill"
"""I had been taking Trinessa for about 9 years until it was discontinued, and my doc switched me to this.
I had a relatively easy time on Trinessa. However, switching hasn't made my skin or cramps any better, and instead has now saddled me with CONSTANT HEADACHES. I don't know if they're just 1 on/off migraine or what, but a deep heavy pain in the side of my head right around my period. I am at my wit's end and this is just my second month. Gonna ask my doc to take me off and give me an IUD asap.  Anyway I think that Trinessa is the triphasic high dose oral contraceptive and the Dr swapped me to tri-lo-sprintec which is the triphasic low dose oral contraceptive.  I think maybe I should have been swapped to the straight Tri-Sprintec?
"""
"My insurance switched me out of Tri-Cyclen Lo (which i was on for almost 3 years) to Tri-Lo-Sprintec and I've been taking it for 2 months. HORRIBLE. I noticed a huge shift emotionally and mentally. I'm constantly sad, depressed, I have no energy to do anything. I'm always crying over the smallest things. I usually NEVER write reviews on anything but honestly, I would recommend anyone on this birth control to SWITCH or just stop."
"I've used this birth control for about a year. I constantly would get my period with a week left of active pills so I always found that odd. I didn't gain weight but I did get melasma on my upper lip. With the constant getting my periods earlier than expected, I finally switched to something else."
"I was switched to this when Trinessa was discontinued. Since I started taking it, I've been getting severe, debilitating migraines the last week of the pack. It's brutal. I won't be taking it again."
"I have been on various birth control pills for about 9 years and Sprintec has been a good option for me. I take pill packs back-to-back so that I only get my period 4 times per year and its been great - however this does cause me to leak sometimes if I'm even 2 hours late taking my pill. Consistency is key. I will say I still experience some bad acne at times and I always get heads when I do get my periods now but overall this pill has been just fine for me."
"Just finished my second pack. For the first month I had headaches and nausea consistently, so I started to take my pill with food, and in the evenings. My period has been on time, completely painless (I had debilitating cramps previously), and very light both months. During the second pack, headaches and nausea subsided- and previously my skin was constantly breaking out, and I haven't had a break out in over a month which is amazing! My boobs grew about a cup size, but I haven't put on any additional weight (however I do exercise regularly). I struggle with anxiety and depression in general, but have not noticed any changes or crazy mood swings, which is something I was worried about- if anything, I feel a bit more stable than usual due to the steady stream of hormones in my system."
"Started this birth control after my first cycle post delivery (2 months after specifically). Although I'm sure if taken as directed it is effective, but I suffered with nausea everyday (within 10 minutes of taking it) and I was diagnosed today with a blood clot in my right leg after day 16 on this medication. It isn't with complete certainty that the clot developed from taking this medication, but there are not any other factors to consider. I would not recommend this medication after the side effects I experienced."
"""Pros: get rid of heavy cramps , lightens your flow , and make your breast a little bigger 
Cons: Every months it seems like I have new symptoms the first month nausea and a loss of appetite , the second I had really bad acne and a huge black spot on my face ( I'm assuming this is from the pill I always had great skin ) , and this month I'm extremely sensitive I cried for awhile this month without any real reason for me being sad."""
"I got a severe leg blood clot (DVT) and lung blood clots (PE) from this birth control. I have been on it for a couple months and it has been confirmed from hematologists that I received my blood clots from this birth control. I would hate for anyone else to have to go through the pain and suffering I have from taking this pill. DO NOT TAKE"
"I've been on this pill for about 3 years, I was always a Sun starter but due to the pharm not having my meds in time my doc had me start my new pack on a Tues. After starting on a Tues I begin to feel like I want to throw up all the time and it will happen a week or 2 before my period, I was nervous all this time, anxiety, heart palp. I felt this feeling in my chest and stomach often that I can only describe as that feeling you get when some bad about to happen, zero energy, low sex drive, I slept all the time, negative thoughts, depressed, lost weight and no appetite what so ever. I notice when I got on the white pills I started to feel normal again. I will never ever take those pills again I thought I was going insane I cried everyday.I'll rather have a baby any day then to feel like that due to Sprintec. I was on ortho tri lol for years before taking that and I can't remember ever feeling like that"
"I've only been using this birth control for about a month, I switched from trinessa lo because it was being discontinued. I was a little shaky taking it after looking at reviews but I am so glad I did. It definitely has cleared up my face where I tend to get breakouts all over my face. It doesn't give me necessarily any side effects other then maybe a little bloating and food cravings but I can control that. It doesn't make me emotional or angry like my last birth control. Only reason I m not giving this a 10 is because it has only been three weeks"
"Honestly hated this. I wasn't on it for long enough to really get an idea of how this pill was because the side effects were so bad that I couldn't take it anymore. It gave me bad acne (which I never get), I was bloated all day everyday and gained 11 pounds in about two weeks, got awful mood swings, and had a really low sex drive. The only reason I'm giving this pill two points is one for preventing pregnancy and one for not causing spotting, which some pills cause. It took me about two months after going off the pill to lose the weight. I switched to a low dose pill and liked it way more. My boobs also went up a size or two and were painful but that is expected with the pill. Would recommend this pill to no one though as I had really extreme side effects."
"The side effects of this pill are awful! It gave me postnasal drip so bad I was vomiting up mucus most of the time. It made me very anxious and nervous. I did not connect the two at first (just thinking it was allergies). It made my body hurt so bad (like when you get the flu) I was up EVERYDAY at 5am, no matter what time I made it to bed. So I started taking allergy medicine. About 3 months into taking the allergy meds I started feeling really bad halfway through the day. I started getting shaky, my nose started filling up, I was dizzy and throwing up, and my body ached so bad but no fever. I stopped using the allergy meds and nothing really changed! I stopped using the sprintec 4 days ago and I feel great... no allergies!"
"""I haven't been on this medication for a long time but so far it's been fairly ok! I made a pro and con list of symptoms. 
Pros: 
•no babies 
•larger but not painful breasts
•improved overall mood. (I was always very irritable and snappy but this mellowed me out)
•lost a little weight. (Could be from lack of appetite)
Cons:
•dull headache for a few days in a row after 2nd pill
•acne slightly became worse (should clear up)
•Decreasing appetite extremely (not exactly a con for me but for some maybe)
•I got a mild yeast infection that was mixed with a small small amount of breakthrough bleeding. 
I'll come back once I've been on it longer but overall I like it."""
"""I read other reviews on this when I got it and hoped I'd have a different experience
I felt extremely emotional for 2 weeks. Have never bled this much unless I'm post partum after I give birth. Nothing but heavy clotting. I normally bleed 3 days on my period. Still bleeding at day 8 on this heavy. Causing headaches fatigue and I can't work like this. It's an awful birth control. My doc prescribed sprintec and this was the generic formula. My doc said keep taking it but I stopped 3 days ago as I was only 2 weeks into the pills and couldn't continue."""
"""I had a horrible experience with Sprintec. My face became oily and broke out with painful acne. I was constantly bloated and gained a lot of weight. On top of that, I though I had irritable bowel syndrome because I constantly had digestive issues such as constipation, gas, and diarrhea; however, I learned that a high dose of estrogen can actually cause this. I stopped taking the pill and after a few days, my digestion and acne problems went away and after a week or two, I lost all the weight I gained. 
Everyone's body is different, but I thought the digestion problems was worth noting because I've never knew that being a side effect of the pill!"""
"I like it. TBH and I'm a very paranoid and pick person. I've been on it for 5 years and I rarely get cramps or much PMS. I didn't gain weight. Didn't lose hair. I've always had depression and anxiety sooooo I don't genuinely see a difference in that. Only thing is I didn't see much of a difference in my acne."
"I was on Mononessa for almost three years and was switched to this pill. I enjoy it ! I didn't have any side effects and my period isn't as long and heavy as it was on Mononessa. I had a little dry patch of skin on my face I normally never get. Not sure if it's from the pill or just the cold weather but I  exfoliated and moisturized  and it's gone. My skin did not break out, I didn't gain weight and I feel fine. It's always worth a shot to try it because everyone's body is different."
"My insurance had made me switch from Tri-Nessa to Tri-Sprintec. At first I had the typical transitional side effects, such as nausea, cramping, and irritability/emotional for the first few days.  I continued to take it & I noticed the symptoms got worse, I expected the emotional part went away. I started having headaches & nausea/stomach pain every time I took it. Had continuous spotting. The days that I wasn't bleeding I had felt super bloated. In my first month, I missed a 3 pills & had unprotected sex. Had weird feeling in stomach like super bloated like I was full. Took pregnancy test & came back negative. About 3 months later I was trying to have sex with my bf & it was super swollen & had vaginal dryness, which I never experienced before. It stayed swollen for the next few days until I called my Dr. Dr. told me my body must be super sensitive & to stop taking it. The side effects were really horrible for me & I will not take it."
"While this birth control isn't the absolute greatest, it's not the absolute worst either. I started this pill about a month ago after my pharmacy switched me from Ortho Tri-Cyclen Lo (which I had been taking for 8 years and loved) because of an apparent recall. At first, I was very hesitant about taking a new pill because I was so used to my usual brand. However, I am sexually active and did not want to get pregnant. I just finished my first pack and overall, my breast have been tender, I've been a bit nauseated, a few headaches than usual; and by blood pressure is up and down. My period however is normal and it didn't start earlier than the usual start date. I plan to begin taking my second pack and allowing my body to adjust to this pill! I don't absolutely love it, but I don't absolutely hate it either."
"""I was on this birth control
option for ~2.5 years. It was my first experience with BC (went on when I was 16 to be safe) so I didn't know any better. For me, I never obtained a regular period while taking this. I would bleed halfway through the month and then spot for a week and not have my period on the off week. It got so bad that I literally convinced myself that it wasn't working and if I didn't wear a condom also I would get pregnant. If you're a teenager and experiencing this PLEASE go to the gyno and try another brand. While it never made me gain weight, mood changes or break out, the bleeding was so annoying and really made it not worth it to take. I am now on Apri, which is a higher dosage so the breakthrough bleeding doesn't happen. Everyone is different! But, if you are struggling to get your period on a regular track, consider switching to a higher dosage of hormones. Good luck!"""
"My insurance switched me to Tri Lo Sprintec from Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo. Right away I've become extremely anxious and depressed. Hoping to switch back as soon as possible."
"I started taking Estarylla in November 2018, and at first hated the brand. I had skin rashes, migraines, and felt depressed to a point where I had no motivation to do anything. Unfortunately my skin broke out worse than it ever has due to this birth control.  The headaches lasted for only a couple of weeks, but I still felt emotional until recently. I was planning on getting off of the birth control because of how bad I felt but am glad I pushed through. On the plus side my breasts grew quickly after taking the pill and I've been fully protected without other contraceptions. I'm towards the end of my third month taking Estarylla and there's no more side effects and am feeling like myself again. Everyone reacts differently to this brand but it's not the worst out there."
"I love sprintec! I've been on it for about 6 months and have had NO side effects. No weight gain-- in fact, I lost weight. No headaches, nothing. Regulates me very well and is effective birth control, when taken correctly."
"""After losing health insurance I got sprintec. I have been on various birth control pills and have never had problems.
About 1.5 months into these pills and I've had a horrific, and I mean absolutely horrific acne breakout on my ENTIRE back, chest, and NECK. I have had no changes in skincare routine or anything. I wish I were kidding when I said one day looked in the mirror before showering and my self esteem was instantly destroyed. I have NEVER had acne, and literally never had it on my back or the front of my NECK before. 
The pimples are deep, there are literally about 50 whiteheads on my back right now and about 100ish deep ones that are coming up all over me....just want to go to bed and cry. 
These pills may prevent me from getting pregnant but are 100% not worth absolutely crushing my self esteem. And acne on my NECK???? still trying to figure that one out."""
"Started this pill for irregular periods and cramping and DEFINITELY HAS HELPED. The first 3 months I felt like absolute garbage (nauseous/weight gain/bloated) but by the 4th month this pill has been a lifesaver!! However, I've recently had an extreme decrease in my sex drive along with a ton of dryness. If you're not sexually active.. then PUSH THROUGH the first couple months bc your body needs time to adjust!"
"In love with this pill! I've never had any bad side effects other than an increase sex drive! It is amazing and keeps my moods the same as well as makes me super into whomever I'm with! My periods are a little bit heavy on this but I get no cramps and an increased drive so I would give this a go! I've been on pills before that took away my drive completely and this one isn't one of them."
"If I could give this birth control a negative 20, I would. I normally am prescribed mononessa but my pharmacy doesn't sell it and I normally get it by mail order for 2 months at a time. I decided to give this medication a try for three months and  Estarylla cause me to have severe anxiety, and depression. I slowly stopped going to class as often, and I cried myself to sleep, felt like I wasn't wanted the whole 9 yards. It was awful. I returned to my normal prescription via mail order (mononessa) and my symptoms have completely gone away. DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. You won't be able to recognize yourself. They need take this off the shelves."
"I've never left a review for anything before. Not a movie, nor a restaurant, nothing. This birth control is THE WORST. After being on Mononessa for a couple of years and having no issues, Walgreens changed the prescription to Sprintec (also no problems) and then to this Estarylla poison. I'm 18 almost 19, an extremely happy, healthy, active, hardworking person. Estarylla has completely demolished my self esteem, leaving me in a weird depressed, anxiety-ridden state for the one and a half months I've been taking it. I've been feeling like I'm in this weird, dreamlike state for the past few weeks and was so relieved to hear that other people on this medication have felt the same way. I've not had the motivation to get work done or socialize due to the extreme mood swings, depression, and fatigue that Estarylla causes. Please, please don't take Estarylla. For the sake of your mental and physical health."
"I recently started taking birth control Sprintec, first time ever. I was so emotional this week, mood swings constantly changing. I forgot to take one day because I was given a lot of pain medication because I just had my wisdom tooth removed, and almost forgot the next day as well so I took two pills before going to sleep to make up for it. I regret doing that because it affected me so badly, I got the worse nightmare/anxieties I woke up 5 times that night. Every time I woke up I was panting in fear and my heart rate was so fast. Around 5am I woke up and threw up. Everything that was in my stomach came out, I was so confused. The fact that I took two pills at once and my body being under stress because of the tooth removal I think caused it, because I have never had my stomach that upset and ill. I'm going to finish the month. "
"I have been on this for going on my second month because my pharmacy has been out of my usual brand (Tri Cyclen Lo) for the past 2 months and I've noticed my face has broke out really bad like not normal and I've had really bad mood swings and my first period on this pill was barely anything and it was 2 days early and not normal!! I would not suggest this pill at all!!"
"I've used tri sprintec for years with no problems but was switched to this with insurance changes. Since beginning this generic I've had bacterial vaginosis every month around my period. It's awful and I'm in the process of switching to another birth control."
"I've been on Sprintec since I was 18, and I'm 22 now and i've never had an issue with it. Makes periods lighter, so nice knowing which day every month exactly your period will come too. I think it help with my acne to some extent as well."
"This is my first week on Tri Sprintec and honestly it is downright TERRIBLE!! I've never experienced so much severe cramping and diarrhea and feeling nauseated in my life from birth control. I have had severe cramping for up to 8 days now and I totally refuse to keep taking these pills. If anything, Tri Nessa is WAY BETTER than this garbage. Tri Nessa kept my periods extremely light in bleeding and never had any cramps. But Tri Sprintec seriously has brought back my nightmares of severe cramping before I ever started birth control. Making it 100x times WORSE!!! I do NOT recommend this birth control if you are not a fan of cramps 24/7."
"This was the worst birth control. I was on Estarylla prior to this and estarylla was actually great for me. I had light bleeding and hardly any cramps. I was happy with it. Walgreens suddenly told me that they no longer make it so they were giving me Mili which was “the same”. It no way was it the same. As soon as I switched pills, I bled for an entire month. It was nonstop bleeding and it was just clots of blood. I was showering up to five times a day and changing pads every hour. I took it a second month after me and my doctor thought maybe I had to adjust to the new pill. The second month was a mistake because the same thing happened and I just bled nonstop. There was about a week in between where I did not bleed. Don't take Mili. It's horrible!"
"I have never written a review for something in my life but I am hoping I will help someone so they do not go through what I went through. DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. EVER. I started taking Trinessa when my pharmacy ran out of my TriSprintec. I did not think anything of it and began taking the pill. However, with a couple days of taking the pills I was having severe depression, mood swings, then after a while I eventually gained 20+ pounds and I got acne which I have not had in over 5 years. DO NOT TAKE TRINESSA. I hope someone will read the reviews and not put themselves what I went through ...."
"AWFUL. I was prescribed this birth control four months ago. I was on norethindrone a little over a year ago and had no symptoms, but was not sexually active so I stopped taking it. My doctor prescribed this pill and it has been awful. Cystic acne (I've never had any kind of acne....EVER), low libido, vaginal dryness even when aroused, mood swings, fatigue, and awful cramping with spotty, irregular periods. I started the pack exactly when I was supposed to and was so exhausted after the first three days I skipped class and slept until 3 pm (I'm usually up at 7:30am), was in an awful mood, and didn't have any libido. My periods have been extremely painful and spotty. My anxiety is through the roof, and I now run the risk of having to take antidepressants because it affected me so much."
"ANXIETY, DEPRESSION, AND FATIGUE! Been taking this medication for 2 weeks and my energy level dropped dramatically. Breast pain was severe. Trouble breathing because of the anxiety and I actually experienced a panic attack! This medication is DANGEROUS  for me and for some people it cannot be safe to take!"
"I was taking Sprintec for 3 months. I started it after I had a miscarriage and one thing for certain, it did do it's job. I never got pregnant, even when I was taking antibiotics for a UTI and also for an STI just in case my Screening came back positive (it didn't). I was always tired though. Literally would be tired like pregnant tired. Falling asleep at work, going to bed early. I also had terrible mood swings like I would cuss out my boyfriend for no reason. My period was on the dot though.  When I was on my 3rd pack I started having really high blood pressure  (BP) for no reason. Figured it was the pill and I stopped taking it and I don't have high BP anymore and all my symptoms went away. Good for acne until you get towards your period. I wouldn't say don't get Sprintec but the high blood pressure could be a issue."
"I've been taking Sprintec since November of 2013 (little over 5 years). I liked it the first few years. I did gain weight but I'm tall and skinny so I was happy to gain a few pounds and no longer look like a stick. My boobs went from an A to a C which was great. I'm now on year 5 and am wondering if the pill is what's contributing to my terrible depression. I spent majority of 2018 being depressed, more depressed than I've ever been, and I can't help but think that Sprintec may be playing a role. While I didn't have any complaints the first few years, I'm complaining now as I feel absolutely miserable. Going to try going off it for a few months to see if the pill is the problem."
"""One of the worst birth controls I have been on. I didn't have acne before but now I'm breaking out daily. Always bloated. Sometimes I get my period twice in one month. NO SEX DRIVE!!! Moody, depressed, angry. 
I've been on it for on and off about two years and never was able to put together why I was this way till my insurance stopped covering it. Not even a week without taking this garbage and I am so much happier. I enjoy being around my husband again. Hopefully I'll start to lose the weight soon."""
"I've been on this birth control for about 3 years. The first week of pills makes me incredibly nauseous every new pack and although it did a decent job clearing up my acne initially, it's started to get worse. I've experienced weight gain and increased anxiety but it has made my periods very regular which is nice. A decent birth control option but I am going to start looking for others out there."
"I've been on this pill for a year now, and let me tell you. I'm not impressed, I was on estraylla, then got switched to this. My acne is so bad, my face is dry and red. It is not helping. I also get these burst of nausea, I can't stand the smell food or anything before my period. My period is still pretty heavy and I'm gaining a lot of weight on this pill. I will be switching after my doctors appointment."
"I'm 30 years old and was on ortho tri cyclen lo since I was 16, I absolutely loved it! No side affects,  period was right on time,  no acne, no nausea or anything.  Well I got on my husband's insurance and they switched me to tri lo marzia saying it's the same just generic,  yeah right,  I started taking in it June or July and since then I've been in the ER twice because of panic attacks and ALL of my organs were infected and inflamed, I finally got that taken care of except for the panic attacks,  I had to quit working,  I don't want to see my family anymore,  I can't go to the movies which I used to go every weekend since I was 4, the only good thing about this pill, yes I get my period on time no heavy bleeding and I'm not pregnant. But I have to switch I can't take these panic attacks anymore,  it's not who I am at all"
"I've been on this medication one full pack now. Early on, I had a bit of tender breasts but nothing serious. Sex drive has actually increased instead of decreased. Acne isn't any better yet but hoping that comes later. So far, it's prevented pregnancy as far as I know. But I don't like how hungry I am all the time. I've gained 5+ lbs in over a month and I was already overweight. I do think it's improved my mood though, so that's a plus to me. I'll continue it with what I've experienced so far. And just try to lose the weight."
"Have been on this for just about 2 months now. Definitely helped my skin which was usually pretty good to begin with, but on my last BC became really bad and cystic - not a problem now! Had already gained around 10lbs from the last one and that weight is slowly dropping. Period is only about 3-4 days. I've never been someone to deal with depression but since starting this it's become prevalent. I don't think it's just from the BC because life factors/stressors have definitely played a role, but I feel like Sprintec may be making that even worse!! Overall good in every way except for the depression. Probably going to stick it out and see if it gets better..."
"This is my 3rd month since starting tri-sprintec. It took me 2 months to realize that this pill has serious side effects. If you're on it beware it can cause extreme vaginal dryness which leads to very painful intercourse. It also has decreased my sex drive - I literally never feel to have sex and it takes very long for me to feel any arousal.  Track your self as you take it and especially pay attention when your on the 4th week white pill as these have no medicine and you can identify what exactly the pill does to you. This is how I realized my side effects, the dryness would basically disappear in the fourth week."
"I started sprintec in hopes to clear my acne and to prevent pregnancy. During my first month I felt uncontrollably emotional, lonely, depressed, especially on the days leading up to my period and while on it. I had cramps and my cycle lasted longer than usual. Nothing too unbearable. The second month I noticed my skin improved but I still had breakouts. My mood also improved after the first month. I am now on my third pack. My breasts have gone up a cup size and they're almost always tender now. Overall, it does it's job at preventing pregnancy and reducing acne."
"I have been on this BC for almost a year and have been fairly happy with the experience. My period comes the same time ever month with no spotting or  side effects. Though I have noticed on the very first day of my period the cramps and pms are 5x worse than before I took the pill, but then go back to normal the rest of the week. Not sure if this is the case with others, but I thought it was strange. None the less, I still have a sex drive, no extra fat than before or more acne. It has helped a lot!"
"I've been on birth control for almost a year, and have been on three different brands. The first one was okay then I was put on sprintec and I loved it. Everything was normal. When I went to my pharmacy for refills, they gave me mono-linyah. I've been on it for 1 week and almost 3 days. I've never been more miserable!"
"Horrible! I have been on sprinter for nearly 6 months. I started for birth control and to stop contact bleeding due to a depo shot (greenstone brand/3 month birth control shot) I had taken. It worked. But I have the WORST depression and anxiety. Definitely NOT worth taking this. I'll be so glad when I can get off of this medication."
"I opted for TriNessa like many others to clear up my hormonal acne and obviously to prevent pregnancy. At both it was successful. It took a month or so for my hormones to be balance and the acne to clear, but now that I've been off of it the acne is coming back. My periods became less painful, so that's another plus. As for weight gain I suspect I gained weight at the onset of taking it, but I wasn't weighing myself. I have just recently started to lose weight. So I can't be sure if it was  the pill that caused me to gain weight or if I was just letting myself go or a combo of both. Anyways, there was also a definite vaginal dryness and major decrease in libido."
"""SO I have been on this since I had my son back in March so thats 10 months I have had acne so bad I have been wearing excessive amount of make up when I go out which does no good at all.  Trying to heal is crazy because every time I get rid of it more come up! I have tried to wait it out and see if it would get better but unfortunately it hasn't. I have been bloated and feeling funny for about two weeks. My appetite is not really there and I just feel off on it. Hopefully I'm not pregnant because I have been SO good about taking this pill everyday and I'm terrible about taking medicine and remembering.
"""
"I have always had acne on most my face but never extremely bad but this made my skin break out.  I read reviews that it did to many girls but I thought well it may be different for my combination skin/ acne. I was on it three months and that's when my acne was at it's all time worse and I didn't even realize it was the pill. I got off it for a month (didn't have money lol) the got on Mili and I'm on my 3rd month, still haven't skipped a period as I'm trying and my mood swings are bad but light flow, still cramping, my acne looks a lot more clear though"
"My dermatologist put me on this BC because of my adult acne. I'm 31 now and started using this BC when I was 27. The transition stage took quite a while. As I rated this, I started with 10 stars and took away as I thought of the side effect it had on me. I experienced: weight gained (30 lbs!), spotting for a whole year, low libido, depression/tiredness, and extreme hair loss once I stopped using it. I stopped using it for two main reasons: one, I felt really depressed/tired and after reading reviews I felt it was due to this BC. And two, as I reached my 30s I decided I'm ready for babies. My acne came back almost immediately after I stopped using it & I've loss so much hair it was scary.  While I was on Sprintec, my boobs did get a whole size bigger and my skin looked great, and at times this makes me want to get back on, but for me, the bad outweighs the good."
"I wish I should have looked up the reviews for this before taking it. Like everyone here, Walgreen switches from Mononessa to this pill. Estarylla is the worst BC pills I have taken so far. It gives me the worst breast pain, cramp & acne breakouts and 2 weeks of bleeding. I'm on my second month now. I didn't stopped first month because I want to give it a try. Second month, my breast pain getting worse. I haven't gotten my period yet. Yet weirdly, I got butt pain for several days. My breast hurt so bad that I can't stand it anymore. That's why I wanted to check the reviews for it. I'm overwhelmed by the amount of people who get the same experience as me. I'll stop the pill ASAP tomorrow. This pill is the worst. I should have checked the review for it."
"""I like it.
Only side effect is amazing skin and increased sex drive. So safe to say this birth control is working for me. I used to be on implanon (progesterone only method) and I had every bad side effect possible (acne, 2 year long period, mood swings, weekly migraines, low libido).So this combo method is much better for my body"""
"I have been on and off Sprintec (On for 4 months, off, then on again for less than a month). The first 4 months I was on it I gained a lot of weight and suffered severe emotional instability. I also got 3 yeast infections right after stopping the first time. Did its job as a BC and made my skin look nice (even though I have pretty normal skin to begin with) but not worth the negative effects. Breasts grew a lot and they hurt, plus the weight gain made me hate my body for the first time ever. At first I didn't know it was the pill but starting it a second time made me realize it was Sprintec causing the changes in my body and appetite. After reading the reviews here I realize now that anyone with a history of anxiety will be negatively affected by the pill and I definitely was."
"I have been on this pill for about 10 months now. It works great for regulating period and clearing acne. My period usually lasts about 2-3 days, max 4 days. The only weird thing is that I get nauseous randomly. I would be very nauseous for 1-2 days and it goes away. Sometimes it's so bad that I cannot smell food or eat anything. There were days I would only eat apples and oranges because that's all I wanted to eat. Other than that, it works well!"
"This is only my first week taking this birth control but so far it has not been a fun ride. My stomach is all queasy and I have had nausea everyday so far. On top of that I have had constant headaches. I know it's only been a week, but it has really been a struggle. I'm going to give it sometime to level out but I am already disappointed with this birth control. I used to take Lo Loestrine Fe and had no problems with that."
"This is the first time I'm taking birth control, my doctor prescribed me Estarylla. It did help in making my periods more regular and lighter, but the cramps are just as bad. Not only that, but I've been extremely depressed, anxious, and paranoid, and that's started to ruin my relationship with my s/o. I couldn't even finish the rest of the pills in the pack because I was feeling so awful. Definitely would not recommend this pill."
"This is my 3rd month on sprintec and it has completely helped everything. My hormonal migraines are almost GONE. I used to spend my heavy day on the couch with narcotics and heating pads. Last week on my heavy day I went shopping for 6 hours forgetting I was even on my period. Complete life changer for me. Everyone is different. Know your body."
"The first day after taking my first pill I was extremely ill, severe nausea that interfered with my job and eventually led to vomiting. Every day after I got slightly less nauseous, and eventually towards the end of the first pack I didn't feel sick anymore. I just ended my period and started my second pack, I take my pills at night to avoid feeling as sick. This morning after taking my first pill from the second pack last night I had the same reaction as the first pack, extreme nausea that actually woke me up and led to vomiting shortly after. I've also noticed I've been breaking out a lot in places I don't usually break out, like my cheekbones and forehead and cheeks. I also developed very sensitive breasts that ached throughout the whole first pack, I could barely touch them. My appetite has increased substantially and I feel like I may be gaining weight already. I hope after the third pack I won't feel sick anymore and my breasts won't hurt as much."
"I am not one to complain about medicine. However, I wish I would've read these reviews BEFORE I started taking Estarylla. I've been on Tri-Nessa for 2 years (with no problems) and switched medicine to find an easier way to skip periods. The doctor prescribed Mononessa, but I was stuck with this brand I suffer occasionally from migraines outside of medicine - but I've had a dull headache most everyday since I've been taking this medicine. Never had that problem with Tri-Nessa as it actually helped my migraines. If that's not bad enough, 3 months in on this medicine and I have HORRIBLE anxiety and feel like I'm going crazy. I feel like I want to crawl out of skin as I'm jittery and it feels like I'm dreaming my daily life. I never have had anxiety in my life. I cannot wait to finish this pack in 2 days and go back to the doctor next week, as I'm going back to Tri-Nessa. Do NOT take this medicine without doing your research."
"Oh god no do not get this birth control. It does fine with preventing pregnancy and stuff but I have never broke out so bad In my life. I have a great skin care routine and I never really had major breakouts just one here and there but my whole face lit up like a Christmas tree and I am so dry and itchy. I can't believe the acne it gave me. Never ever again."
"I took this birth control for almost 2 years with really no bad side effects. I did have the worst acne for the first maybe 7 months of being on it until it finally cleared up! It was awful looking. I also gained like 10 lbs but I'm underweight anyways so I was happy about that."
"I was on this birth control for 2 years straight in my teens for acne and birth control. Cleared out the acne those two years was pretty great but a lingering side effect was nausea every morning. Got off this BC for 3 years due to financial reasons. Was prescribed this again in April 2018 and the diarrhea and nausea began almost immediately until I stopped using it in November 2018. From that last day no diarrhea and no nausea. Good for bc no scares, but the side effects were awful. Am now on kyleena and it has been great."
"""I've only been on this birth control for a month now but I love it so far. Haven't had a single bad side effect and my skin looks amazing. 
I will update this if things go downhill :) 
P.S. 
I was implanon and that was a miserable time. I'm so happy to find a birth control that doesn't effect me so bad."""
"I started this because I have been having horrible, unpredictable LONG, awful, HEAVY periods.  I have to say, day 2 on these and it finally stopped!  I haven't noticed anything out of the ordinary. I'm surprised and low-key kinda freaked out about all of these negative reviews. I have been pretty happy which isn't normal lol. I've been doing a popular low-carb diet which already makes you feel kinda nauseous and have occasional diarrhea so I'm not really sure if it's this or that. But, I just couldn't take those never ending periods anymore!!"
"Made my resting heart rate raise 20 beats per minute over a 7 day period. That can't be healthy. I stopped this medicine immediately and my heart rate soon returned to normal. Also gave me acne, mood swings, and anxiety. I got switched  to this because the pharmacy stopped carrying Monessa."
"I didn't get pregnant while taking this pill but in the 5 1/2 months I took it I gained 10 lbs, my skin got worse, and my cramps were worse. Just switched back to Yasmin generic today, that one works well with my body."
"Do not take sprintec! I've been on this pill about 2 weeks due to painful periods. I missed my period ( which was fine ) but I'm noticing that I have extreme pain in my whole groin area. I can't even feel when I need to go to the restroom. Do not recommend this pill for anyone I'm switching over to a low dose pill in two weeks."
"""I took trinessa for about a year and I should have stopped way sooner. The side effects were bad, decreased libido, mood swings, depression, complete dryness in my vagina. 
It did clear up my skin but I would not recommend it to anyone."""
"CVS switched me from Estarylla to Femynor. It's the worst birth control I've ever taken. I have depression, anxiety, irritability, everything mentioned in other reviews happened to me as well. I have to fight CVS every month to give me Estarylla because I refuse to take this medication."
"I honestly thought I was going through a mid life crisis but upon reading this reviews I finally understand why I have been acting the way that I am for the past couple of months. As soon as I was switched from Estarylla to this medication I had SEVERE anxiety until this day. I have never been one to be anxious but when I tell you I had the craziest anxiety ever, I did. I would get my period on the second week of active pills all the way through my sugar pills, mind you I was taking the pill at the same time everyday. DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PILL. Also I gained like 10lbs"
"Side effects: migraines every day, gained 25 pounds in 5 months without any lifestyle change, low libido, anxiety, mood swings, horrible menstrual bleeding, tender boobs, but I had GREAT SKIN???, inability to fall asleep...stopped taking this pill in June (now December) have lost 20 pounds without lifestyle change, boobs do not hurt, way better periods, mood swings and anxiety are gone, no headaches, libido is back and skin went back to normal (I have acne but compared to every other horrific side effect this pill gave me I'll happily take the acne).......this pill is truly the worst and any birth control pill for that matter."
"I was 17 and switched from the highest dose estrogen patch (to increase estrogen levels) to Sprintec, and finally got my period after never having it. I initially thought it worked fine, I never got acne (never had it to begin with) and could track my periods down to the day it would start and end. On the other hand, periods were the worst. Very heavy periods with a lot of clots, horrible cramps, and only a few cases of mood swings. My period only lasts maybe 4 days total though. I am now switching since my periods were so bad. In terms of pregnancy prevention, it did it's job, even with no other use of contraception, like condoms. It also made me very dry, and lowered my sex drive. A good perk is that it made my boobs grow maybe a cup size up! They're still slightly tender at all times though. Other than that, its an okay choice for BC. I don't have anything else to compare it to though, but for my first time ever using an oral birth control tablet, not terrible."
"I got on sprintec a month ago to treat my hormonal acne and my skin has cleared up so much already it's crazy. So far I haven't had any really bad side affects but my mood is definitely off. I feel like I'm becoming too emotional now and I don't like it. I'm still going to continue taking it though!"
"I started this in April of 2017, I had super bad side effects the first few months, like breast pain, long periods, cramps, headaches, etc. Around the end September that year I start to get very anxious and depressed, I didn't really think it could be my birth control, so I just dealt with it like it was normal. It's NOT, it gets worse as you take the pill. It did a great job preventing pregnancy, although we use a condom as well. Overall, I wouldn't say it was terrible, it definitely wasn't good."
"""I've been on Sprintec for 4 months. I am also hypothyroid and on  Synthroid. I was on Nuvaring  and getting pregnant.
Only good thing about Sprintec is it prevents pregnancy.  The bad symptoms include horrible cramping, mood swings, loss of appétite due to nausea, nightmares and acne. I have heavy bleeding. I am in my 40s. I have my ups and downs, but never like a few nights ago. I started by picking fights with my husband for no reason. I also imagined that someone was watching me when I was alone one night. I had to call my best friend to come over and calm me down, because my husband was out of state on business. She is an ob/gyn nurse and said maybe it was the birth control and to call my doctor. I was afraid for our daughter, not like I'd hurt her, but myself. She was asleep in her room. Just horrible. I will never take this ever again. I will see my doctor in a week and may tell her no to birth control, given my age and thyroid issues, and go back to condoms."""
"Literally the worse birth control pill I have ever taken. Within 3 months I gained 10 pounds, skin broke out all over for the first time in my entire life, and my depression doubled in feeling. I have never been so discouraged in my entire life and I feel like it will take months for my body to get back to feeling normal. One positive: I could predict when my period would come down to the hour."
"DO NOT TAKE THIS PILL. I was on mononessa for years and loved it until the pharmacy switched it to this garbage. At first it was typical, but by the 3rd week my health flipped. My anxiety and depression got so bad, I was feeling nauseous and lightheaded all day, I had so much trouble breathing, had low self-esteem and was overthinking everything and couldn't handle stress, I was exhausted all the time but would wake up constantly with chills, and my heart was racing nonstop. I finally realized the only thing that's different was this stupid pill so I quit taking it, but not before my doctor informed me I now have an overactive thyroid that was likely brought on by this. For mental and physical health, don't accept this pill."
"So I have been on this BC for about a month and a half and for the first couple days I definitely would get nauseous, especially if I drank alcohol until about week 3 or 4. I got a little tired but I didn't really get any moodiness. I think it has helped my mood. And this is coming from a 27 year old  who's been suffering from PMDD for about 2 years now. I was bloated maybe 2 weeks, and that went away. So no weight gain. And lastly, my hormonal acne was the main reason I decided to get on combination birth control & just so happened to be prescribed sprintec.  It has done wonders on my skin. I've had no huge hormonal flareups. The ones I used to get were BAD, every 2 weeks like clockwork. I do still break out, but its slight. Says it takes about 3 months to see a difference in acne so maybe in 3 months it will be regulated for good. Overall, I like it and will continue to use."
"So I started this birth control about 5 months ago and it hasn't been great to be honest. I have pretty regular periods they're light and not that bad, but this birth control makes me feel SO SICK like I throw up like once every other week now and I feel nauseous a lot. It also made me break out like CRAZY and I used to have relatively clear skin. My friends and boyfriend and mom say that I've been more angry and mean lately so I'm definitely changing it. I've also noticed slight weight gain. I've just had a terrible experience."
"Compared to other birth control pills this one made me feel the most normal when It came to my mood. I saw a complete turn around in myself after switching to this pill.  However I stopped taking because it gave me severe period cramps and bleeding. I didn't really have any other side effects"
"""Things this medicine has done to me or made worse:
sudden severe headaches,
anxiety, nausea.  I have symptoms of depression--sleep problems, weakness, tired feeling, mood changes.
Feeling of warmth in one or both legs"""
"This is the WORST birth control! I was on Mononessa for a while and it was fine. My periods started like clock work. Then Walgreens said it was discontinued and switched me to Estarylla about 6 months ago. The break through bleeding is horrible! I have to wear a pad or tampon every single day for the spotting! I told my doctor who called in more Mononessa which the pharmacy switched to Estarylla again! OMG! Can I please get something where I am NORMAL again??!!!"
"I was looking for a birth control after having my second child. After being put on this I noticed massive mood changes. Then after a month I found out I was pregnant again. 11 days after I found out I was pregnant I was in emergency surgery. I had an ectopic which my ob told me was caused by TriNessa. Never again will I touch this birth control, or any for that matter."
"This was my first time taking birth control and I used it for 7 months, I never got pregnant while on this pill but I noticed I had the worst mood swings of my life and would freak out about everything. I was always crying while on this pill. I was hesitant to stop taking it because it was effective but ultimately came to the conclusion that my mental health was more important. Now that I've stopped using this pill, I'm not currently taking any new medication and have felt happier and more at ease"
"I am going on month 3 of using this birth control and yes, it works. But it is so not worth it because of the side effects. I already have anxiety so this birth control has not only made it 10x worse but has made me extremely depressed and given me insane mood swings that I can only describe as bouts of rage. I have never felt this emotionally unstable in my life. I have also gained around 5-10 pounds. However, this is the cheapest I can get birth control without insurance so if the side effects don't end up wearing off then I will definitely go off of it."
"This is by far the best birth control I have ever been on. This pill improved my sexual function immensely. Before being on Sprintec I would have a difficult time reaching orgasm but now that I am on the pill I can climax easily and frequency. Only down sides are slight increase in anxiety, acne, and weight. But overall I would recommend. Like I said the negatives are very slight."
"This is my first time using this drug, the pharmacy switched me to this since and  then I've experienced cramps, eating more, my breast are sore but the good part is I've gone up a cup size. I hope it does its job."
"I finally found a birth control without all of the side effects and they are phasing it out.  This worked exactly like ortho lo but was free with my insurance not $180.  I'm so so sad I'm going to have find another one the process of getting to this one was extremely hard :("
"Okay let me just start with the first  point. I do not like this birth control. I was originally on TriNessa Lo for awhile and didn't really seem to have any serious problems with it at all. Now just this month I was switched to Estsrylla and didn't seem bothered by it at first but once I hit the last week of my active pills, it was down hill from there. I have had severe anxiety and depression. Don't want to do anything. I overthink everything. Feel like my chest is tight and have shortness of breath because the anxiety and couldn't seem to feel my emotions. This went on from Sunday to now Saturday. 7 full days!!! I'm going to call my doctor this week and hopefully be able to be changed to a different brand or back to my old one"
"My pharmacy switched me without informing me from Trinessa to Tri Lo Sprintec. At first I was very skeptical and my mother warned me against taking it, but I have never had any bad experiences with other birth controls before so I figured this would be the same. Immediately I began to notice a change in my appetite as I would eat more than ever before resulting in weight gain. I also had almost no sex drive or desire to do anything with my boyfriend. I felt like I could not be myself as hard as I tried, once my boyfriend approached me about how I had not been myself whatsoever I knew I had to stop taking it. It was upsetting because despite all these side effects it is the first birth control that has ever cleared up my acne which I have struggled with for years."
"Best birth control! I experienced ZERO side effects and still not pregnant :)"
"This is the very first birth control I've ever taken and it's been a month and a week. I haven't really had any of the negative side effects everyone else seems to be having. The first couple weeks I was a mess emotionally and didn't feel well, but once I got over that all seemed to be fine. I suffer from pretty bad anxiety and I've noticed after being on this pill I seem to be a lot more calm than I usually am. Everyone is different, so give it a shot!"
"It has been an okay pill for me so far but reading these reviews make me wonder. I have been depressed, strong anxiety and random cries while taking this pill but I thought it may have been Post Partum Depression. I also have random feelings of nausea and have thrown up for no reason at least 3 times with this pill in the 5 almost 6 months."
"This was my first time taking hormonal birth control, and I can say it is my last as well. I was only on this pill for 6 days and within those days my anxiety was triggered like never before. Not only was I nauseous every day but I started experiencing paranoid thoughts and almost delusions. With already existing mental illnesses this medication triggered all of them to be so much worse. On the 6th day of taking it I felt out of touch with reality and started sobbing and continued sobbing every day on and off for about 4 days out of fear and anxiety that had suddenly taken over my whole brain. I have never experienced this level of feeling out of control mentally. Please if you are thinking about taking this specific brand of birth control, don't if you have existing mental illnesses. Overall horrible experience, I am traumatized."
"I've been on sprintec for a year now, I switched from a different pill because I was getting severe cystic acne. Sprintec helped clear my skin tremendously. The past 3 months however I've been breaking out even when I'm not on my period, but it's not as bad as before. I've gained 10 pounds, but I'm very skinny so I don't mind. And my boobs went from a C to a D which my boyfriend likes. I've been on so many different birth controls in the past 2 and half years I don't know how my mood is without it. I feel I definitely get moodier near my period but my period went from being 8 days and heavy to 4-5 days with only one heavy day. I've also been a bit more emotional but overall I think I am going to stay on this one for awhile. So far not pregnant and I use this as my only form of BC"
"I've always taken Mononessa as birth control, which I loved - barely saw any side effects and it was very convenient.  My pharmacy has (several times!) given me the generic Estarylla, and while I know it's basically the same thing, I can't help but hate it.  The few times I've had to go through a month of using the Estarylla my mood swings were TERRIBLE. Again, no real side effects when I took the Mononessa.  Also, the Estarylla packaging is the WORST.  The blister pack is flimsy and doesn't close properly, so my pills are just out there in the open."
"Was on orthotricyclin for birth control AND acne.  This DOES NOT help acne people!!!!!! Very disappointed!"
"After being on Mirena for 7 years (2 rounds) I had my IUD removed after developing severe acne and depression. My doctor prescribed Trinessa and I was hesitant to use it. I went birth control free for 2 months with little to no improvement to my acne. I was also using retin-A to help with it. I have now been on Trinessa for four months and I'm so impressed. I rarely break out and it clears up quickly. I still have scarring that's improving. I discontinued using the retin-A when I began using Trinessa. I gained about ten pounds but it's not noticeable and I actually feel more confident with my body now. My breasts did grow about one size as well. My mood also changed dramatically, I feel happier and more relaxed. The only negative I can say is the irregular periods. The first two months of use I had very long periods, like three weeks at a time. Now I just skip the "placebo week" and only get a bit of spotting 1-2 days. Overall very happy!"
"So I started this birth control about 2 1/2 months ago.  My cramps were sooo painful on this medicine. I'd get cramps 3 days before the placebo pills and while taking those inactive pills the pain was just too unbearable. It works as far as the birth control part but the pain is just not worth it. The first month I was on it I was dizzy all the time, couldn't focus or concentrate to save my life. It was as if my brain turned to mush. If you have depression or anxiety DO NOT TAKE THIS!"
"I have been using this birth control for years (going on year 13). I went through all the messy side effects in the first 3 months until I finally felt better. I even thought I was pregnant due to the similar side effects. Well, it works. I am hoping it keeps working. I also take it at night after a few hours after dinner.  I am not sensitive to it anymore. I would have changed this birth control if the side effects would not have stopped. So I can understand if this an issue for some women. Hope you find the birth control that works for you!"
"""Been on Ortho Tri-Cyclen Lo 28 day for 1.5 years & it's been great! Not a single pregnancy scare, decreased cramps, no nausea, barely any mood swings, overall excellent! HOWEVER, just recently got switched to the GENERIC version, Tricira lo, which was fine for the first 3 months, but as of a month ago, I've been recently having terrible brand new symptoms! Never missed a pill and take it at generally the same time every night like I always have! A month ago I started having terrible cramps and got my period a week early (during the active pills) which lasted for two weeks! I have had various panic attacks and find my anxiety to be 10x worse than it was before, not to mention I've been feeling nothing like myself lately! Extremely sensitive, crying all the time, very short tempered. A month later, I get my period today, once again during my ACTIVE pills, already accompanied by terrible cramps! Terrible! 7 stars because the real brand generic version is good! BUT THE GENERIC I
S rubbish!"""
"I realize every body is different and this birth control may well work for you. I am mainly writing this to make myself feel better because right now I feel AWFUL. Nauseous, depressed, emotional, sweaty AND cold. I'm only on day three and realize these side effects may subside but no way am I continuing with this. No no no. I'm going to throw up now."
"I've been on this pill for about 2 months now and I feel no different for the most part. No mood swings (probably because I'm also on an antidepressant) no skin changes, no cramps, no spotting, no headaches. The only thing I've noticed is my ph balance has been a little off. Not sure if it correlates."
"I was on sprintec for 12 months. The first few weeks, I was very nauseous, waking up every morning at 5am and vomiting. After three weeks though, it stopped. Three months in though, I started experiencing extreme mood swings. I was having lows and highs within a matter of hours. After four months of being on sprintec I was absolutely hopeless and reached a very dark place. I was in the hospital discussing my medication when it finally clicked that the mediation was the cause. I took myself off of it about 8 months ago and I've never felt more regulated. I still get down occasionally, but I haven't experienced any scary thoughts since. Sprintec was a nightmare for me... also made my acne worse!"
"I'm just now stopping the use of this drug. I'll be starting Viorele probably next month and am hoping for better results. I started this drug 3 months ago after an ectopic. I have PCOS as well so I was also hoping that with the birth control help it would stop the abnormal bleeding and long periods. It did the opposite. I've bled longer on this drug than I have without any birth control. It used to happen once every few months now it's a monthly issue. I've been super depressed and emotional while on this drug and very very angry and aggressive. Which is why I've stopped. I don't like this feeling. If it happens with this new pill, I'll go off of Birth control for good."
"""I decided to stop taking  Loryna, another birth control, in April and started breaking out like crazy. My once clear skin suffered from 8 cystic acne pimples at a time. I then decided to get back on birth control, only this time I used Sprintec because Loryna caused my uterine lining to thin and caused spot bleeding. 
I just started my second pack of Sprintec and my skin is back to being  flawless and is no longer oily. I now only have 1 pimple. Keep in mind that during the first month or so you will still have acne and it may get worse before it gets better. My acne did get a little worse at first."""
"AWFUL!! DO NOT TAKE!! I've only taken it a few days and I am itchy all over and on the brink of a panic attack since the minute I started it!! brain fog, anxiety, itchy skin!! I CAN NOT URGE YOU ENOUGH NOT TO TAKE THIS IF YOU HAVE ANY HISTORY OF ANXIETY."
"Please do not take this pill. I have never been so sick in my life. I only took two days of the pill and had to stop because I could not leave bed. I was throwing up everything I put into my system and wasn't able to eat for 48 hours. Also my period got super heavy to the point where I thought I needed to go to the ER. This medication made me feel awful."
"I've been on this pill for about a month and a half. The first week was a little rough I would get nauseous at the same time every day but it would go away. My period has always been irregular so I've never really had issues with cramps. I get cramps maybe 2 or 3 days before and my period isn't that heavy it's pretty normal. The only downfall I have with this pill is my emotions I'm not sure if it's the pill or my thyroid medication. I haven't gained or lost any weight so that's a plus. I don't really mind it to be honest."
"I LOVED this birth control! I was on it for 5 months before my doctor switched me to a cheaper alternative. My acne was nonexistent after about 3 weeks! My boobs grew from a 32A to a 34B in just a month, without weight gain in other regions of my body! I didn't experience mood swings, depression, anxiety, migraines or anything of the sort. My period went from slightly heavy and lasting 7-8 days to being super light for 4-5. My normal cramping on the first day still happened, but that happened prior to my use of this medication. I can't say enough good things about this product, and I wish I could go back on it again!"
"""I'm 18 and I decided it's time to get back on birth control, because I am sexually active. I thought maybe I should try trinessa again, because when I was 15-16 I was taking this, I would forget to take the pill so, maybe that's why I had problems (throwing up, hormonal)
This time round I haven't missed any days so far, and I'm about a month in on taking it and so far I am super depressed. I am usually a super nice person, I have a good job, great friends and family and an amazing boyfriend. But, it seems like lately I feel worthless and I am having really dark thoughts. I feel so dark and trapped and it is terrible. I have been so awful to people surrounding me lately, including my boyfriend and I just hate how I feel. I have been hearing that I just need to try to stay on it for a few more months for my body to get use to it, but we will see how that goes. If this continues, I am going to get off this one and try a new one."""
"Been taking this birth control for exactly a week now and have experienced a couple side effects, mood swings, increased appetite, sore boobs, bloating. It's only been a week so I will stick it out and see how long these side effects last. Haven't had sex yet to determine if it works yet though :("
"I've been on this pill for almost a year and it's been good, I don't think my mood has changed a lot. I also haven't gained weight or gotten acne! I was really worried about those two. The only problem is that I'm having two week long periods and that's been going on for about 5 months and idk if that's normal. Has anyone else experienced this? Before the pill I took the depo shot and had irregular bleeding too."
"I have never had any issues with spotting while on any other birth control until switching to this one!"
"Honestly, I have felt nothing bad or negative with this birth control. I switched from the Depo to this, and I felt intense nausea with the Depo and I feel absolutely nothing now with Tri-Lo-Marzia. Not only does this birth control keep my period on a consistent routine, but my breasts have grown a full two cup sizes within the two months that I have been on Tri-Lo-Marzia. Honestly, my body looks great, and I feel great; This works SO much better with my body than the Depo."
"This birth control has been great! I've heard of many people getting nauseous and headaches yet that hasn't occurred to me at all. I didn't gain any weight as well, I did get some mood changes the first week of being on them but that was it. Definitely recommend!!!"
"Bleeding all the time, have had multiple yeast infections and bacterial infections, have massive blood clots. This birth control is awful. I tried to stick it out past 3 months but it doesn't get better. I'm calling my doctor to switch."
"I just started this pill about 3 weeks ago and am starting to have many negative symptoms now. I was on microgestin, had minor symptoms, so I switched to TriNessa which made me severely depressed within the first couple of days taking it. I started this pill and was not having these symptoms but have recently felt overly tired and depressed. I did not think it was possible to feel the emotional pain I was going through from Estarylla again but now that I am on TriNessa I am back where I was with Estarylla. I feel that I could cry any moment over anything and I overthink anything anyone does. Other than the depression, this pill has not shown any other bad symptoms, but I don't know if I can handle this emotional stress anymore. I would not recommend starting this pill if you have anxiety already, as this had just made mine increasingly worse. I am hoping to stop this pill and am going to talk to my doctor over my uni break."
"I was previously on microgestin and was having light spotting off my period so I switched to estarylla. It was the beginning of my freshman year first semester so I thought I was just stressed but by the third week of taking this pill I realized it caused me to become extremely depressed. I was unable to do anything and did not leave my dorm ever. I couldn't eat (lost 5 pounds) and always had low self esteem. I stopped taking it and ended up starting a new pill a month later and am having similar side effects. I only stopped taking estarylla about a month ago but can't desctibe the mental and emotional pain I was going through. I do not recommend this pill at all, I wish I never took it because it severely affected me this first semester of school and I'm hoping I go back to normal soon."
"I've been on this for two years now and I never really understood why I was so grouchy all the time and if someone did something wrong my mood would change so quickly. I still am taking it but I will be going to the doctor to get switched."
"I was put on this medication to try to keep my estrogen levels steady. This medication has made my menstrual cycle last for almost 3 weeks now. I stopped taking it after only taking 5 pills because it was making me feel bloated, and nauseated. I can only imagine taking it longer."
"I was on Orth-try-cyclen lo for about five years and then I stopped and switched to the higher dosage pill, which was terrible and gave me the worst side affects. I told my doctor to switch me back and she prescribed me Tri  Marzia lo. The first month I had a migraine about once or twice a week, but I figured it was the hormones adjusting. That is probably the only side effect I had on this pill. My periods are light and usually only 3-5 days long. No mood swings, nor any weight gain (I consistently workout throughout the week). My boyfriend and I use this as our only form of protection and it works 100 percent! I always recommend any kind of Lo estrogen birth control because it has always worked best for me!"
"My daughters pharmacy switched her to this when they were out of Esterella and she has been miserable for a week! Ended up in ER due to pain in kidneys, headaches, discharge, upset stomach, diarrhea - miserable!"
"While only being on this BC for two cycles I had constant cystic acne breakouts. I constantly felt tired and fatigued. Would get large cystic pimples that would make that whole area of my face hurt. Then after a week or two the large bump would go away and leave large dark purplish/red marks in the area that they were. Additionally, my boobs hurt and grew this entire time. I'm already an athletic build with larger boobs as is. I didn't really want them to get bigger not a big down fall however when they constantly hurt bigger boobs don't really matter. I didn't experience weight gain although my mood in the first cycle was everywhere. Between angry and sad. I felt unpredictable. Another complaint about this birth control was constantly feeling constipated even with taking fiber and stool softeners. I'm starting a different birth control today that's lower dose. So I hope it only takes a week or two for most of these symptoms to subside but I can't wait to stop taking it."
"Unlike a lot of the reviews on here, I had a positive experience with Estarylla. I have been on 2 diff. pills before my pharmacy switched me to Estarylla. Some background on my experience with birth control pills, the first pill I was on was terrible. I gained 10lbs in 2.5 months, had breakthrough bleeding all the time even if I was taking my pill at the same time everyday, & felt like a different person with zero emotion. The second pill I was on (Sprintec) was better but still not great. Looking back, my major side effects on Sprintec were irritability/moody, fatigue, & some breakthrough bleeding. My pharmacy switched my prescription from Sprintec to Estarylla. To my surprise, this is my favorite of the three pills. My PMS moodiness/irritability was gone, I have experienced no breakthrough bleeding even if I take a pill late, & I feel great. Don't be afraid of negative reviews when trying birth control pills because you'll never know how your body will respond until you take it."
"""I've been on this form of birth control for going on 3 months. I've never been on birth control before. The first side effect I noticed almost immediately was vaginal itching, I kept thinking it was a yeast infection. When the yeast infection symptoms started again the next month after my period I did more research and realized that it wasn't a yeast infection but a side effect of this drug. 
The next thing I noticed was my mood swings. I equated the mood swings and anxiety to the fact I was working, moving and planning a wedding. Well now those things are done but I still feel so emotionally unstable and depressed. I started to think something was wrong with me. It's comforting to read that these feelings are a side effect of this drug and I plan on getting off of it ASAP. 
Oh one other side effect is my libido is almost nonexistent."""
"I've been taking this pill for 1year I noticed I've lost weight and bleed a lot"
"I took this pill for two years and it made my period shorter and lessened the cramps. I decided to stop putting hormones in my body and after one week, I was a different person! Not depressed anymore and much more optimistic. I would never go back to taking this pill."
"I was given Junel Fe 1/20 twice by my pharmacy because "they can give out generic unless your doctor said you can't", and it has made my life a living nightmare. I was unbelievably moody, I had an increased appetite, and I developed a splenic infarct (blood clot in my spleen). I would never recommend this to anyone"
"Terrible!!! Constant migraines. On Taytulla birth control I've had two periods each month. I still bleed just as much. If I'm not on my period I spot every other day. I also have had super bad anxiety attacks as well as depression. Switching off this birth control this week!!"
"6 months ago I was switched from Glidess to this. After switching I had absolutely no sex drive & was moody. 3 months after I started this medication I had gained 10 lbs (I work with a trainer & eat healthy) & started to become sick. I had horrible cramps with constipation or diarrhea & nausea every day. I went to see a specialist & was advised to take tests to see what was wrong (really expensive)! I finally made the connection that it could possibly be my birth control even though my pharmacist & doctor said there was 0 chance that was it. I stopped taking this pill & days later I was fine. No more cramping, diarrhea or constipation, nausea, and bloating. (I'm losing weight back to my “normal self”) My sex drive is back to normal too. I wrote this so others who have the same issue can be warned. I thought I had celiacs, a food allergy, or an intestinal issue, that's how sick I was. This pill ruined my life for 6 months."
"I was put on Junel Fe 1/20 at age 18. It did what it was supposed to- regulate my periods. I don't think I experienced many side effects aside from one- insane weight gain. I know it's said that birth control doesn't cause weight gain, but I don't think it makes sense otherwise that I gained about FOURTY POUNDS in a few months. Since stopping, my weight has stabilized but I haven't lost it- I'm hoping this summer I'll be able to knock off some of the weight. Before Junel I was underweight and pretty thin- now I have stretch marks, don't fit into my clothes, and have a gut. Not a fan- would rather have seasonal horrific periods then have that weight gain."
"I have been on many different pills and this is the worst. For almost the whole 2nd month I had horrible PMS pain and my period lasted for TWO WEEKS!!!!!! I normally have quite heavy periods (with large clots) and I get pretty bad back pain from them, but what this pill caused was so much worse. I would think it was over and then go to the restroom and my underwear had blood in it. I woke up every morning with horrendous back pain which is not normal for me (for some reason I've always gotten back pain from my period instead of cramping in the upper pubic area, but I've never had it this severe). I feel exhausted and unmotivated. All I want to do is sleep. My stomach is upset most of the day. All of this happened while I was on holiday in Europe. Needless to say I'm done with this pill. I'm on the last week of the 3rd month so I'm going to finish it out even though I feel horrible. I've never had side effects from birth control, nothing even close to this."
"""So I had been taking Junel 24 Fe for a few years now and at the beginning of the year was switched to Blisovi for I was told Junel was no longer on the market. I loved Junel. I had no weight issues, medicine worked as intended.
Now that I'm on Blisovi, I have gained close to 30 pounds in a matter of 3 months. I was gaining roughly 2 pounds a week at the beginning and now gaining 4 or 5 pounds a week. I never had many issues with my weight. 115ish at 5'1. I'm now at 152lb at my latest weigh in. This is the most I ever weighed in my life. And I'm considered obese. 
Besides that, my mood swings have been terrible. I used to never fight with my boyfriend and now constantly do and I hate it. We used get along so well. I have also been extremely paranoid about so many things that it makes me physically sick. 
I would not recommend this medication to anyone unless it's your only option for BC."""
"I am almost done with my first pack of this birth control to help with my irregular & painful periods. It has helped with pain and not caused me any pain BUT I have gotten horrible acne on my chest and chin & my face skin has been super red and itchy. I am so glad to see other people are experiencing this. I will no longer be taking this medicine."
"""DO NOT shy away from Blisovi Fe 1/20 by horrible reviews. Most people are usually only motivated to post a review when having a bad experience with a birth control, people who are satisfied, usually do not share their experience. However, I've been taking this for about a year now, and it has controlled my PMS by like 95% and has lightened my period almost completely. I have acne-prone skin, and iIcan confidently tell you that my face, as well as my friend's skin, has completely cleared up after a month of using this BC. 
Experience may definitely vary between people, but my friend who uses blisovi fe 1/20 has such a positive experience and recommended it to me, and I can say the same. I have not seen any noticeable weight gain or weight loss. 
Give it a try for at least 2-3 months before trying something else! It takes a month or so for your body to get used to the hormonal changes, and may not experience full benefits until then."""
"I was on Lo Loestrin Fe for about 6 years, for bad periods but decided to take a break in 2015. I have not been able to go back on it. This last time I was on it for about 2 1/2 months. My anxiety and depression were through the roof, I started having acne at 44 years old. When I realized I had to stop it immediately is that I started having extreme back pain and aches all over my body. I went to the doctor and didn't come up with anything. So, I have stopped it. I am day 3 off of it and I woke up with the worse migraine, I guess my body is readjusting."
"I have been using this birth control for over 2 years, and at this point I feel like I have seen no new side effects. I like that it has made me period very light and lasting only about 4 days, and that it has cleared my skin. I came to realize recently though, that my 30+ pounds of weight gain has been due to the birth control— I never had that big of an appetite before taking this and now it is never satisfied. It also has not helped my terrible migraines that I get while PMSing. On my period, I tend to be depressive and get into a really dark place. I know that medications affect people differently, but if you're prone to those kinds of thoughts I would definitely avoid this medication."
"DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. I started Nortrel 1/35 in Dec 2017.  I became extremely anxious, depressed, extremely moody and would go from happy to sad or mad in a matter of seconds. I stopped taking this in January 2019, and all of the side effects subsided. Not realizing it was from the birth control, I started back up on it two weeks ago and I have been breaking out so bad, my moods are all over the place, my anxiety is worse than ever. I decided to look up reviews because starting this pill again was the only recent change in my life and now it all makes sense. I've also gained 5lbs in the two weeks I've been back on it and started my period yesterday when I'm not supposed to have my period for another full week. This pill is awful!"
"I only went through 3 rows of Blisovi Fe 1/20 and my face broke out in painful acne!!!! Horrible acne. I had night sweats and weird dreams. Hungry all the time! Not worth it for me."
"I was on Junel Fe 1/20 for 2 weeks, and I changed instantly as a person, my personality changed dramatically, I didn't even know who I was after being on this, I got depressed, I cried for no reason, I felt really crazy from it. As soon as I stopped taking it I felt instantly better, I became myself again."
"I was put on Blisovi FE when they discontinued Microgestrin and the only reason I am giving it 3 starts is because it prevented me from pregnancy which is the main goal of birth control pills. I was on this pill for about 6 months until I started to feel sick everyday - major brain fog, dizziness everyday, exhausted, abdominal swelling and more. Never did I think it was the Blisovi because I had been just fine for 6 months. After being on this pill over a year I have finally found my answer to all my symptoms as I got off this pill and feel normal again - it messed up my entire body. I would see if this works for you but know what side effects it has."
"""DO NOT USE IF PRONE TO HEADACHES
This birth control gave me a migraine every night"""
"I'm currently on my 6th month of taking Lo Loestrin Fe for heavy periods, and it has definitely made my life better.  I spotted daily the entire first month.  The 1st few months my period was definitely shorter and lighter, but I had some crazy cramps.  The cramps are much better now, lessened over time.  I haven't really experienced any psychological effects, I feel like it has stabilized my mood more.  A few times I forgot and took the pill late and experienced nausea and bleeding.  So I definitely recommend taking it regularly at the same time every day, or you will experience side effects!  Overall it has worked well for me.. I have a much easier to deal with period that lasts about 3 days, I have a lot more energy because I'm not anemic anymore, I'm spending less on pads/tampons, my hair seems to be a bit thicker, and I haven't experienced any negative effects on my skin.  It is also fully covered through my CVS Caremark insurance."
"Please, please, please, avoid this pill. I was given this pill around the age of 34 because my periods became very irregular and heavy. I took this pill for 3 months and I gained 30 lbs. I just started feeling heavier and heavier. I stopped after 3 months of taking it and I started having chest pains and losing my breath frequently. I now have hypertension that I can't get rid of even after losing the weight I gained. I'm not a fit fanatic but I do eat well and exercise some. I'm now on 60 mg daily of blood pressure medicine and I blame this pill! This pill forever altered my life and I can't wait for a class action lawsuit to follow for poisoning us!"
"I'm 38 years old and this is the first birth control I've ever tried.  My gynecologist recommended it for my crazy PMS and sudden onset of adult acne. I was absolutely terrified to start it especially after reading some of the horrific reviews of the side effects, but I realized all of the side effects that others were experiencing were what I was already experiencing without the birth control.  I decided to give it a try and I am so glad I did.  The first few weeks were slighty slightly unpleasant. I had a headache every day and a lot of unwanted spotting, but I remember my Dr telling me to give it time.  I am now going into my second month and I feel better than ever.  My period only lasted one day. I had zero cramps and zero  psycho episodes of PMS. My anxiety is almost non existent. Everyone reacts differently. I encourage you to find out how it works for you because had I  listened to the scary reviews  I wouldn't be feeling as great as I  do now."
"Been taking Blisovi Fe for about a month and I noticed after the first 2 days of taking it that it increased my appetite like I always wanted to eat was never full. Then after a week of taking it I noticed that I had diarrhea at least 3 times a day and that alone drained me. All of the little energy I did have the longer I took it the more  the energy disappeared. I realized that it wasn't the food I'd been eating it was the birth control.  Then I started feeling sickkkkkk to my stomach the worst stomach aches EVER in my upper abdomen, lost sleep I wouldn't recommend this birth control to my worst enemy I have a 3 year old and a 9 month old that I have to take care of and on top of the Diarrhea loss of sleep at night and the severe stomach pain I've decided to discontinue using this birth control it's not worth my health."
"I took Lo Loestrin Fe for two months for PCOS. I had a great experience. The biggest side effect I had was very noticeable water retention, and I gained about 6 pounds. However, it was truly a lifesaver and reduced my PCOS symptoms amazingly."
"This is the first birth control I have ever been on and I was skeptical after reading all the bad reviews before ever even trying it. I let the first pick sit unopened on my nightstand for almost 2 months before finally working up the nerve to take the first pull. Everyone's body reacts differently to different hormones. So far I've been on Blisolvi Fe 1/20 for 3 months and haven't had any major side effects. The only cons I can think of is that I spot a lot and I have noticed an increase of appetite, especially cravings for unhealthy foods so that's weird. Even if your birth control is making you hungry, you ultimately control what you put in your body (even if it feel like you don't!). If you eat healthy and stay active you should have no problems. I had bad hormonal acne and now it's pretty much all gone. It's also helped with my period cramping. Don't let the negative reviews scare you away because you may be pleasantly surprised. If you don't like it, just try something different :)"
"I started this pill because my lower dosage was giving me issues but I will try that pill again.  This pill, Junel Fe, is absolutely horrific.  If I'm not spotting, I have a yeast infection.  There is no break for me. Once the yeast infection is gone, I get my period. Then the cycle continues. I have had THREE yeast infections in the past month and a half. Talked to my gyno and she said this is probably what is causing the yeast infections, as there is a higher dose of estrogen. Definitely would not recommend. The stars are only because it did prevent pregnancy."
"My OBGYN prescribed this specific pill for me because I haven't been on birth control since I was 19 ( I'm 25 now). He said it would be easy going for me because  it's basically the mildest form of  BC I can take.  My first month on the pill was rough, I felt so nauseous especially the hour before I'm suppose to take my BC. I had constant headaches & tender breast (the doctor warned me of that & said it should subside after the 1st month, it didn't). My breast grew after the 2nd month on the pill, but my anxiety also heightened. I had 3 panic attacks during my 2nd month. I was thankful that my period was lighter. Haven't had sex since I've been on the pill, I'd say it has lowered my sex drive only because it's made me so depressed, anxious and forgetful that I don't even think about sex. I'm too moody. 3rd month was awful and I hit a real low, I've become more critical of myself, and unhappy with everything in my life."
"I tried this birth control a few months for shorter and lighter periods. Plus my previous pill lo ogestrel gave me horrible headaches all month to the point I was tired.  Lomedia did do its job as far as that. I had 4 day long periods, which was the shortest ever with me. My periods were almost always 6-7 days with or without birth control. But the cramps the first 2 days were so bad I could barely get out of bed. And my cramps even before my pill days were never bad. I gave it 3 months. Never subsided. So I was switched back to lutera. The only reason I gave it a 5 was for short periods and no weight gain."
"The absolute WORST! I've experienced headaches, depression, anxiety, high blood pressure, sweats, low sex drive and fatigue.  PLEASE TAKE THIS PILL OFF THE MARKET."
"The first two months on Taytulla were smooth sailing. I already suffer from anxiety so it was fairly normal to feel anxious and anxiety. I started my third pack and I have been nauseous and throwing up every single day for the last two weeks. I've dropped 15 pounds and unable to hold anything down for the first three hours in the morning. This sent me to the ER due to dehydration and lack of appetite. I have discontinued Taytulla and am working with my doctor in finding a BC that works for me."
"I started Taytulla birth control and instantly started getting the worst anxiety in my entire life. Sadly, I have enough things going on that I wasn't able to pinpoint it to this medicine right away. I wenton two anxiety meds which made my anxiety even worse. The bottom line is, as soon as I quit Taytulla, my life returned to normal after a few days. It was the single worst experience I've ever had in my entire life."
"""
So what I found in the first month was that my period was at the same time cuz my body was still adjusting to the pill. During the second month, I got my period for 3 weeks!!! From the second week until the start of the third pack of pills!!!! Not just light spotting, full on period. My acne was ok, but I got a lot of it on my back since I started taking it which is frustrating. I've noticed that I have A LOT of mood swings. I feel almost bipolar in the fact that my mood goes from super happy and chatty to just crying and not talking at all. The mood swings have been difficult on not just me but my boyfriend has a hard time maintaining these two drastic changes, he does great at trying but it sucks.I hate how grumpy I get an hour or two after I take the pill when I would be having the best time with my boyfriend anyways, this pill has helped me to NOT become pregnant and it does it's job. My body just isn't having it lol"""
"While I was on the combination birth control pill for 2 years and 7 months, age 40 (July 2015 start) I started to deal with nausea 2 years exactly after being on it. I then started to deal with anxiety and getting extremely irritated. My libido crashed too, literally. I became extremely tired with hot and cold flashes, palpitations and balance/vertigo issues at 2 years and 7 months. It was the worst nightmare putting my entire life on hold, dropping out of college and literally missing days of work and going to the ER like 3 times to figure out what was wrong. Not one doctor could give me an answer until I discovered a naturopathic doctor who was able to help with all my symptoms. I am currently still dealing with vertigo."
"This BC made me sick. I've had severe stomach pains and vomiting. I don't recommend."
"I like this pill Loestrin 24 Fe, I do not have mood swings, weight gain or acne. So far it has pretty much stopped my periods each month. I just get very very light spotting for 2 - 3 days instead of a full blown period. I've been on other pills and I like this one better."
"I have only been using this rubbish for 3 weeks now, and it made my severe acne 10 times worse and I gained over 15 pounds..."
"With Taytulla I had insomnia, migraine, depression, severe cramps, period with heavy flow twice a month. I do not recommend this drug. Stay away"
"I started Blisovi Fe 1/20 as my first birth control and was only on it for 10 days. At first I didn't think I had any side effects, but the more I thought about it the more I realized that  the little things that were off about me had to be related to this birth control. I haven't been able to sleep very well; I keep having strange dreams that wake me up several times a night. I've been easily agitated and anxious. My stomach is constantly upset when I eat but I don't really have much of an appetite. I've decided to stop taking this medication and will be requesting to be put on a different pill. I read these reviews before starting it and should have listened."
"I've been taking this birth control for a couple of months and it has been an emotional rollercoaster. Shortness of breath, nausea, weight gain, horrible menstrual cramps, periods in between periods. Its been awful.. I would not recommend this pill to anyone."
"Briellyn gave me HORRIBLE cystic acne. Would not recommend."
"This was my first experience with birth control ever. The only reason I'm not giving it a 0 is because I didn't get pregnant the two years I was on it. However I did managed to gain 100lbs (no joke) taking this and many other weird health issues arose taking this. I've NEVER had such an issue with my weight or my health. Once I got off it "shockingly" my health has improved."
"I was on this pill for 7 months, I started to breakthrough bleed after month 3 every 2 weeks.  I thought this would go away but it got worse so I am switching to a different pill.  No huge side effects with this pill but it under performed and made me stressed about its effectiveness the whole time."
"""If you have an anxiety disorder do not take Taytulla birth control. I have it and taking the first pill my heart rate increased, I was shaking sweating and felt really bad. 
Probably it works for people without an anxiety  disorder. But it is not for me!"""
"IF YOU HAVE ANXIETY/DEPRESSION TO NOT TAKE BLISOVI FE 1/20!!! Seriously, I went into horrible mood swings and would constantly be at a low or a high. Irritability was so bad I couldn't be around anyone without going off on them. The boob soreness was constant and it made me have large amounts of acne. I also found an increased appetite on this and gained a total of 20 pounds! I just recently switched and my mood has gone back to how I was before.... it's absolutely insane what this did to me. Please take this into consideration as I don't wish this on anyone. Absolutely the worst 6 months, I thought I lost my mind."
"This birth control is horrible I been on my period for two weeks and it's horrible. I started on this pill when my last cycle begin and I haven't came off yet. I stopped taking these pills and I will never take these pills again. After this horrible experience I will never get back on birth control pills again"
"""I was taking Junel 1/20 for 3 months . First month went very well and I had no side effects hence I continued taking pills . 
It is working well to prevent pregnancy but on the 2nd month I felt side effects of it . 
I was very moody and could easily start crying all of sudden. I experienced some bleeding between periods which didn't make me feel comfortable but I knew it was a side effect so I didn't pay much attention to it . 
One night during making love we noticed bleeding again. And it kept bothering me for the next 2 days . 
And on the 3rd month of taking pills my breast became very tender and I experienced pain and lump in the breast . 
I went for ultrasound everything seems well so far but my gut feeling tell me to stop taking this pills because I don't like what it s doing to my body ."""
"I've been on this pill for the better part of a year. I switched from something else bc I was having horrible periods. I should have just dealt with that birth control I have had the worst side effects being on this pill. First off, never had a problem with having sex and now I do. It burns every time after now. I've had on and off UTIs/yeast infections. Never happened before. Last one I had was 10 years ago prior to this birth control. I have to take a supplement to control it. Also, probably the scariest thing is I have a weird vaginal discharge that would come out every time I urinate. I have an ob appointment April 10. Hopefully can get on something else then."
"This is an awful pill that made me depressed and have crying fits for no reason. These issues went away as soon as I went off it."
"I started this birth control about two months ago. Within the first two weeks on the pill, I was spotting everyday and experiencing terrible abdominal pain. I thought nothing of it, and continued taking it. A week later, my anxiety started to build up. I was having frequent panic attacks, and angry episodes. I would lash out at everyone around me; my friends, my family. And I started to complain about everything my boyfriend did, I was never happy. One little thing would tick me off and I would be down about it for the entire day, or sometimes the entire week. I CANNOT stress enough how angry the pill made me, I was pushing everyone away. My experience with this brand of birth control was not great, and I would not recommend it if you have experienced these side effects with different birth controls, or if you are prone to depression."
"It's been two months since I've been on this new birth control. The first month I didn't really have any side effects other then my acne flaring up and a super light period. The second month my acne calmed down, and my period was a little heavier but here comes the side effects. I started having horrible nightmares, and waking up drenched in sweat. I would have hot flashes all through the day, and I was extremely tired. My anxiety was high and I had mood swings. I couldn't figure out what was wrong with me, I wanted to go to the ER because I felt like I could barely breathe, and the hot flashes were so intense I was scared I was going to pass out. I realized it was the birth control! I was skeptical of these bad reviews from people when I researched the pill before taking it, but sadly it's true! Horrible experience. I gave 2 stars because my acne did clear up a bit and it prevented pregnancy."
"I actually haven't had any problems with Taytulla. I got a 3 month sample pack from my doctor. I had the implanon for about 4 years before this with many issues. On Tatyulla my periods have been only around 4 days long which has been an amazing change. I just called to get a refill because I ran out of the samples packs and it was $323 with my insurance which I think is insane so I will be switching to a different pill that's more affordable. But besides the price the pill worked great for me with no negative side effects."
"This birth control was the worst I have ever been on. It was the first one I ever tried and made me gain 25 pounds in about 2 months. It was horrible and I still haven't been able to lose the weight. I do not recommend whatsoever"
"I've been on it for nearly two months now. First month was fine, and my period was amazing. I normally have AWFUL periods with so much pain I vomit and HEAVY bleeding but the pill made all of that stop. But now going on month two there isn't a day that goes by where I don't feel ill. Dizzy, nauseous, headaches, mood swings, really weird dissociation, abdominal pain and cramping – I'm going to stop taking the pill immediately because I can't take it. I would rather have a week a month of an awful period than feeling like this everyday. I might try another kind of birth control but I'm hesitant because I don't want to go through this again, and I'm only using it to regulate my period so I'm honestly not sure if it's worth it."
"This pill definitely has some benefits and disadvantages. First three months, I was extremely moody and bleed for about a month straight but once everything levelled out I was fine. No period and no mood swings. BUT since then, I have trouble with vaginal dryness even when I'm really in mood so that sucks and I missed the pill twice during break and now I've had this unexplained discharge for about 3 months"
"Been taking  Lo Loestrin Fe for three months now and haven't had any problems so far. I like it only had a period once for three days."
"I started Blisovi 24 Fe birth control 4 months ago, at first everything seemed ok but these last 2 months have been horrible. I am 30 years old and I have NEVER had any issues with acne. Now I'm constantly finding new bumps popping up around my chin and forehead. The last 8 or so days left in my pack I feel like complete crap. My stomach constantly cramps, I feel constipated, I feel nauseous, I have headaches, I feel tired and I'm constantly hungry. I'm bloated all of the time. My doctor has now changed me to Junel ... hoping for better luck ."
"This - Junel Fe 24 - my first birth control pill I've taken in my life. I began my pill on a the Sunday which was the 5th day of my period. The first week was fine except for nausea and a small breakout on my forehead. Everything was just peachy until the second week of taking these pills, I began having brown breakthrough bleeding ever since and it has not stopped! It's annoying having to constantly wear and buy panty-liners. Hopefully my body adjusts in time and the bleeding goes away."
"Overall this was not the birth control for me. I am super active and always felt really good about my body. I'm 18 years old and Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 was my first BC. I gained weight, broke out, experienced horrible mood swings (I honestly cried all the time), and my periods felt worse than before. I was on this pill for 5 months and it was not great. I felt so sad and the mood swings were causing me to ruin relationships with those around me. I've been taking Taytulla for 4 months now and I have been having a great experience with it. I know everyone's body reacts differently but just thought I should share my experience with this pill. My new gyno  also said this was too high of a dosage for me and I should've never been put on this BC."
"Taytulla is the third birth control I've tried and I love it. I barely get a period anymore (light spotting) which is great for me because I used to experience really heavy bleeding and awful cramps. I've experienced some changes in appetite but with no weight gain, my anxiety hasn't worsened (a severe side effect of another pill I was on), and my cramps are relatively non-existent. I plan on continuing to use this birth control for a long time."
"This  Primella birth control is great,  pretty much no periods just slight cramping. I used to have very heavy, painful periods. No weight gain and seems to help acne too. I'm on my 3rd pack and suddenly starting to get so emotional and down feeling."
"Taytulla  made me get my period for 20 out of the 30 days in a month.  I've been on it for three-four months and at first my skin was the same and now I'm breaking out like crazy. I went on bc to help my skin and this made it worse. I'm also exhausted all the time now so I'm going to call my doctor and see how to get off this pill"
"Okay so Lo Loestrin Fe gave me literally the worst acne of my life, I'm not being dramatic, this was awful. Got switched off of it for a while because of it. If you think you won't get acne because of this you are wrong. I still have acne left over from this and I've been off of it for a few months. Ruined my face. Good luck!"
"I have never had a single side effect and taytulla is the only birth control that I have ever used! I have been on it for over a year and a half and it works great for me!! The only thing I've noticed is that I haven't really had my period the way I used to (no, I'm not pregnant :) ) but other than that, I love it!"
"I was on a Junel for a year and 3 months. In that time I have gained approx 30 pounds. The first 3-4 months were bad as expected (my Dr said it would take that long to adjust). Breakouts, depressed, constantly nauseous, sore boobs, etc. After that initial period, things did get better and I started to feel normal again. However, after 6 months, I began to have extremely irregular periods. I would go 3 months with nothing, then have 3 periods within one month. My skin started breaking out again. Worst of all, one week before the gyno appt I made to switch to a diff type of BC, I found out I was pregnant while on Junel Fe!!!"
"After hearing endlessly from my birth control provider/pharmacists telling me I'm crazy, I was starting to believe it. I'm SO happy I found reviews from others experiencing the same issues! My birth control provider randomly prescribed me a refill of Blisovi & after 1 package, the issues were numerous: GI issues out of no where, terrible cystic acne, gained probably 5-10 lbs that I could NOT lose (despite rigorous dieting & daily, 1hr+ exercise sessions), my anxiety was high/I began having suicidal thoughts, & even developed a large cyst in my breast (thanks for the cancer scare, Blisovi)! My boyfreind & family could tell there was a huge change in me over the time I was on Blisovi, & we ended up requesting a new refill since they wouldn't let me take another round due to safety/health concerns. As soon as I switched, the problems eased. Please, avoid this birth control and do NOT let others tell you that you're crazy for feeling the way you do. You know your body better than anyone else."
"I use it in combination with Liletta. My doctor warned me about all the possible side effects, such as increased blood clots, mood swings, acne, weight gain, etc. I've experienced NONE of those symptoms. I'm most happy with the fact that I don't get periods anymore because they were incredibly painful to begin with. If I forget to take a pill for 2 days in a row, my period comes back very lightly. So just take the pill every day and you'll have a wonderful life."
"I have been taking Blisovi for almost 2 years now. This bc regulated my period, cleared up my acne, and stopped the cramps. However I had bad nausea and headaches at the start, which the doctor told me would stop as I continued, so I kept taking it. Eventually the nausea went away, but the headaches didn't. I had terrible backaches. I gained at LEAST 40 lbs since starting. I'm in college, so it's hard to eat healthy/exercise when in school & working, but gaining this much weight this fast is NOT normal.  I was already depressed because of school, but this bc made me mean/irritable, I have lost my motivation, and I feel like a different person. I just stopped taking this pill and  switched to a hormonal IUD, so i'll see if anything changes. The negative side effects were too much to bear."
"""First time I took this pill, I felt nauseated all day long. I went back to my doctor and she advised me to take it at night instead. 
I've been taking the pill before bed time for the past 2 weeks and I feel a lot better. I quickly fall asleep after taking it. Sometimes I still feel nauseated in the morning but just very minimal and tolerable compared to when I was taking it in the morning."""
"I don't leave comments on medicines, but this was the worst birth control I've been on, so I want to make others aware. I'm just finishing my second pack and have gained weight, got cystic acne, and have been more prone to anxiety attacks. I've had a lot of headaches and very irritable. I'm switching off of this birth control after this week since I only have 3 pills left, and my doctor wants me to finish this pack before starting a new one. I highly advise not taking this medicine -- the side effects have been unbearable."
"I have been a crazy emotional mess, especially the last 8 or so months. I've been on Tarina Fe for almost 2 years, just got switched to a higher hormone pill in hopes it can help the mood swings. I've been sticking it out on this pill because I don't have insurance so I couldn't afford to keep going back to the doctor to find a better fit until now. Never had an issue with the breakthrough bleeding until the last 5 months. Very strange considering I've been on it so long. I'm hoping that a different pill can get my hormones regulated and get my moods back on track!"
"My personal experience was a nightmare that ended up with me in the ER.  I was prescribed Blisovi 24 Fe to eliminate bleeding, the first two weeks I thought I was a little emotional, a little more tired and hungry - but nothing I would report to a dr on. It's the third week I started getting migraines. I would take Aleve,  migraine medicine  daily (I've had the migraine med for two years that I never really needed before I was now). It all culminated with a racing heart, headache with pain thru my jaw and so much anxiety I was convinced I was having a heart attack.  A HEART ATTACK!!!   I'm three days off this medicine and I already feel like myself again!  This was not for me at all. I'll take a hysterectomy over one more of these awful pills.  If researching methods to stop heavy bleeding. I'd advise trying other options first."
"This was my first time on birth control (Blisovi FE)and I am taking it for painful cramps. The first month I had no side effects besides a random week of spotting which I heard was common. My period was shorter, lighter, and had limited cramping which really saved my life. I no longer dread my period. I used to have to stay home from work because the cramps were so bad before this pill. During my second month I had sore boobs and that was it. I do have a bigger appetite but no weight gain since my metabolism is pretty fast. No mood changes. This pill has worked really well for me so far as my first time on BC but remember that everyone reacts differently :)"
"In the beginning Larin FE was a little rough. I was nauseous 1-2 a day, Luckily I had zofran. I had acne terribly. I was moody, had random stomach pain. But that was the beginning, DON'T RATE THIS WITHIN A COUPLE WEEKS OF TAKING IT. If I went by the bad reviews of people who had only taken this a couple weeks I wouldn't have got it. First off your body hasn't even had time to adjust with the medicine in that amount of time. I'm halfway through my second pack and now I don't have acne, maybe a small blemish occasionally, no weight gain yet, no more nausea, no headaches. It's great now that my body is use to it. I bled about three days lightly the first week I started it but since then I've not had a period. I had spotting for one day about a week ago And usually my period is 3 days and regular flow but painful, so I don't mind skipping it. If you try this birth control, give your body until maybe a few packs to adjust, any meds you take you have to adjust to the hormones before you know if is good for you or not."
"""After 2 days, I'm stopping this pill. Migraine, nausea, barely slept. Looked up the reviews because I experienced these symptoms and was stunned at how many women had a negative experience.
***Do NOT Recommend**"""
"This birth control Blisovi Fe is amazing, don't just listen to the negative reviews. Every female's body will react differently to dosages of hormones so remember that. Sometimes you will have to try two, three, four...maybe even more than that to find the right one. It took me 5 different pills to find the right one for my body. My periods pretty much stopped with blisovi since I skip the placebo, I have no side effects aside from some cramping and bloating around the time I should get my period but that's just mother nature. Keep an open mind and give this a shot."
"I've had my fair share of birth controls. I am pretty healthy. Microgestin works for me, I have very light periods that last about 4 to 5 days and no cramps where normally I have fairly painful ones. No feeling sick or headaches or depression or weight gain or any other major side effects. Maybe other than feeling a bit nauseous in the morning because I take it the night before. But it works as described for me!"
"I have had no issues on Junel Fe 24 -it's worked great for me for over a year now with no major issues."
"I had to leave a review because I almost avoided Lo Loestrin because of the reviews, I took it anyway and  I love it.   I started it on day one of my period and continued all the blue pills, setting my alarm to take them at the same time every day.  There was one day that I took it 4 hours late but all other days were fairly close to the same exact time.   The first month I was MAYBE a little down, and a slight headache, maybe.    Fast forward to the end of the month and I was feeling great.   My period at the end of the month was only a few days of very pinkish spotting only/ extremely light.    This is in contrast to usual heavy periods day 2-3 so a definite perk.   And I'm not pregnant despite having unprotected intercourse multiple times throughout the month and even every day within the usual fertile window.    I'm well into the next months pack now and haven't had any side effects whatsoever and have even lost about 4-5 lbs.   I love this pill and will update if anything changes."
"I have PCOS and struggled prolonged and heavy periods my entire life. I've taken this in the past but never consistently. Miss one day here and there, sometimes take it in the morning and night which made my cycle go out of whack. About a year later I decided to get back on it with a stricter mindset. I took my pill at 8:30pm every night. This time around I noticed a difference! My period was a lot lighter with lesser days. I didn't gain weight or experience an acne problem. However, I noticed my mood has been unlike me and I didn't correlate to the pill until I started reading the reviews. The last 3 months Ihave been extremely emotional and anxious and cried without any reason. Now knowing its because of the pill, I can now pin point the problem and stop blaming myself. You got to weigh the good and bad. I would recommend this because again it did what I needed it do to the most- regulate my cycles."
"I took this for about 10 months. Immediately I put on 10 pounds. I was able to lose some of that in time for a vacation, but as soon as that vacation was over I put on more and more weight. 30 pounds total. I just couldn't stop emotionally eating. I didn't associate it with the birth control because I got promoted to a more stressful position at work, and also went through a breakup. However months after trying and trying I just couldn't lose any weight. Maybe would lose 5 pounds, but just binge eat and put it right back on, plus some. I just stopped taking it about a month ago and immediately lost 6 pounds, presumably water weight. I feel the pounds slowly creeping off. The only thing the pill ever did for me was keep my skin clear, and keep me from getting pregnant. I started breaking out again,  but I'd rather have a few spots and not be disgusted with myself and my body."
"""This is the 4th birth control I've tried. I get terrible cramps, vomit, headaches, etc. while on my period and while other pills have alleviated those issues, they had their own side effects (moodiness, anxiety, weight gain, etc.)
I got an IUD 8 months ago and cramped every day, PLUS I got terrible cystic acne, so I got that out.
I got put on Taytulla immediately after getting my IUD removed. I was super skeptical from all of the bad reviews, but this pill is AWESOME. No change in mood, I've definitely had an increased appetite but no weight gain, no change in drive, no headaches, no cramps, it cleared my acne, and my breasts went up 1/2 a cup size. Only cons: noticeable breast tenderness and I have not had a period since taking it. (my gyno said this was normal & I am not pregnant.) 
All in all, super happy."""
"""At first this bc was great. It was the very first type of bc that my doctor prescribed to me and I had no complaints the first month. When the second month hit I had missed a day so the next morning I took two (I had done hours of research on what to do if I missed a day and thats what it said to do). 
During that day I had felt a little weird but I kinda brushed it off. A couple hours later I was sitting in class and it was like the feelings of being extreme nauseousness came in huge waves. I HAD to go home ASAP. When I was walking to the office to dismiss myself I dry heaved in the middle of the hallway in front of so many people. I was shaking and dizzy and crying it was AWFUL. 
This bc just didn't agree with my body. I am now on my 6th month of the Glenmark Norethindrone bc and I'm doing much better. Norethindrone is a mini pill which only contains one hormone (instead of two)."""
"This birth control gave me extreme depression and anxiety around and during my period. Non stop crying for days. I already have depression and anxiety but it made it worse. There was nothing else that could explain it. I started taking it and about month 3 I quit no way am I ever taking it again. The good experience I had was I didn't gain any weight in fact my appetite decreased but I associate that with depression. May not be bad for everyone but for me it was the worst birth control pill I've been on"
"""So glad I found this forum!
I was on a low dose BC while nursing... I actually forgot to switch when I was done nursing 2 years ago"""
"I had a not so great of an experience with this pill. It definitely made my period lighter, didn't make me break out or anything, and didn't get me pregnant, which was good. But it came with a lot of side effects, the first 2 months I was extremely moody/ sad and just wasn't myself but that went away in the mean time. I'm small and built pretty athletic and I still gained about 10 pounds. I would get my period twice a month which I thought was normal for the first month or so but 6 months went by and I'd still be getting it twice a month. I just switched over to nortrel which hopefully will stop the breakthrough bleeding. Don't be afraid to try Junel FE out though, everyone's body takes things differently, I'd say give it at least 3 months to get used to it then if your still having issues I'd advise you to change."
"""*PLEASE READ* 
I never put reviews for medication I have been on but I wanted to WARN all the girls who have to be put on this generic pill for some reason. I used to take Lo Loestrin and it was amazing however my insurance stopped covering it so I was given Larin Fe. 
WORST MISTAKE OF MY DAMN LIFE....
At first I didn't have any symptoms but within a month, I've hit the darkest of spots of my life, insomnia, shakiness, HORRIBLE anxiety, breakouts (not severe), acid reflux, lack of appetite. 
Sadly, there was not  single day in that month where I felt normal, I was going crazy with mood swings, depression, I barely could leave my bed, I even had several panic attacks. 
I wish I could say a positive side to this drug but THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING POSITIVE ABOUT THIS DRUG.
Believe these negative reviews please, and if you don't feel an side effects right now, the second you feel it please switch to a different birth control. It won't get any better waiting."""
"Started Junel little over a month ago and nothing changed for the better. I have been bleeding for almost a month and my face and shoulders are breaking out like crazy. I have horrible abdominal pain and blood clots . I can not wait to get off of this and hopefully switch to a better one."
"I was on Junel Fe 1/20  for 3 years and never had any issues with it. I then switched to the copper IUD and then paraguard IUD for 6 months which caused excessive hair loss for me and a hormone imbalance so I switched back to Junel 1/20. I've been on it for about 2 months now and the first week I had bad cramping but since then I have had no issues. My skin is clear, my moods are actually better, I've lost a few pounds."
"I started using this pills because of the horrible menstrual cramps and heavy bleeding I would endure. This medicine helped with that, but my mental state became increasingly worse by the month. I started to lose hair by the handful, my skin and became very sensitive. I stopped taking them because I would rather deal with the cramps and bleeding, versus feeling like I was losing my mind."
"So I had to change my previous medication cause it made me bleed 2 months straight. Blisovi FE has been amazing 7-8 months and none of that! My periods are average to light now. I have not noticed any weight changes but my acne also sadly has not gotten any better or worse (except for period time). I'm still able to lose and keep weight off if I try! So don't be worried about that make sure you give your body time to adjust (my previous one I was on for 5 months when the bleeding started so I adjusted then to that! So it can always get better or worse just try to see :)"
"Microgestin FE 1.5/30 is the first BC pill I have ever taken, and I've only been taking it for a month, but I could not be happier. I was worried to start taking birth control because of all the horror stories I've heard and all the possible side effects, but this one definitely works for me. I haven't experienced any side effects at all. No breakthrough bleeding, morning sickness or noticeable weight gain."
"I have been taking this pill for 9 months. I don't know how I made it through the first three months because I was constantly dizzy, nauseous/ throwing up, I gained 10 pounds and I started feeling sad and irritated all the time. Well it's 9 months now and most of the symptoms have gone away but I am still really depressed. My mood swings are off the charts and I lack motivation for anything. It regulated my period which is really great but I don't think it's worth my mental health. I'm going off it it."
"I took Taytulla for week and the side effects I had was dizzy and nauseous the whole time. I finally stopped taking it when I threw up all night for the first time in 7 years. I would not recommend this drug."
"I was on Junel for 3 years. First 2 months I was VERY emotional, but after everything evened out I saw some positive things. Gained a little weight (I was fine with it because it went directly to my boobs and butt), helped my acne (still broke out around my period), also COMPLETELY STOPPED BLEEDING. No cramping--nothing. Which is kinda weird but my doc said it was fine. Imagine not having to buy tampons for 3 years. All-in-all pretty neat. I moved to another country so unfortunately I have to switch to another bc..."
"I've been on Blisovi Fe 1/20 for a year! NO WEIGHT GAIN!!! Periods pretty much stopped too <3 The only downside would be my emotions being out of whack, but the benefits far out weight the cost for me."
"STAY AWAY from Junel1/20 !! One month after taking developed calf pain (if this happens, immediately seek medical attention). Three months in, chest pain/ short of breath. Went to ER and they found massive bilateral pulmonary embolisms and three clots in my legs. I COULD HAVE DIED. I have NO risk factors (under 35, non-smoker, healthy eater, gym 5x week). Stay away from all hormonal birth control!!!!!"
"Horrible persistent headaches!"
"I would not recommend microgestin 1/20. I was prescribed this because I have very heavy periods and am very anemic. I have been bleeding for 13 days. I feel like having my uterus removed!! Once I am done with this pack I am never taking it again!!!"
"WEIGHT GAIN!!! I've been on this Junel Fe 1/20 for about 1 and a half weeks now and the changes I've seen in my weight are not pleasing to me. I weighed about 134 pounds when I started the pill and now I weight 143. I've haven't seen much change in my acne but I have noticed that all of my psychological feelings for significant other have instantly gone away. So weird and I will probably stop taking this pill. Junel, unlike other stronger birth controls, does not make me sick or nauseous. Surprisingly, this pill has actually made me a happier person but I am not happy with my physical results. If you don't mind a little weight gain than this pill might be a good choice for you."
"I went on Loestrin Fe for acne and iron deficiency. 7 months in my acne has not improved- which is the reason for only 3 stars. As for birth control it was reliable; I never experienced cramps or spotting, my periods came on time and lasted a manageable 4 days. I wasn't great at taking it on time and sometimes if I was too off I would get a bad stomach ache but that would be my fault. I did get 2 yeast infections when I hit 6 months but I have little to no idea the cause. My ferritin levels for iron deficiency reached a normal level within 4 months which was great - definitely the reduced bleeding helped. I definitely gained weight while on it but I was underweight beforehand and also started university this year. Overall not bad in all categories but my acne is the exact same as it was 7 months ago, which was most important to me, so I switched birth controls last week."
"So, I've been taking Junel 1/20 for about a year now, I think. Before I started I had regular but very very heavy and excruciating periods that lasted 5-6 days every month. Junel completely took away my period, which at first I was happy about, but now I just don't feel it's right especially because it's one of the first indicators if you become pregnant. Secondly, I've come to realize that I've been acting completely crazy and emotional about almost everything and my boyfriend can attest to the fact that I was pretty cool and generally laid back right up until I started taking the pill. I'm planning to switch  soon. That being said, Junel was also the very first pill I'd ever taken so I cannot compare it to any other. Just thought I'd share my experience."
"I've been on Blisovi 24 control for almost a year. The entire time I've had an ongoing yeast infection that won't go away. My anxiety has skyrocketed while my libido has greatly decreased. I've had extreme dryness and more migraines on the pill than I've ever had in my life. I never used to have bad cramps when getting periods but now I get cramps so bad I can hardly move and I have to keep a heating pad on my lower back just to be able to stand it. I've been super depressed and it's given me more acne. I haven't gotten pregnant so it's doing it's job but I can't wait to change."
"I had a horrible time with Trinessa and it caused me to become depressed and my anxiety was so bad too. My acne also became cystic with Trinessa and started to become constant and so very painful. My doctor put me on Necon because he said it is supposed to help balance my hormones. I am really excited for it."
"Since starting Blisovi 24 I've been experiencing horrible diarrhea, so bad that I'm afraid to go out/go to work. I've been to my PMD thinking I may have IBS/Celiac; it's that bad. Lab tests show it's neither but my dr recommended a colonoscopy if it doesn't subside with a change in diet. I changed my diet & I'm still no better. After reading other's reviews on this birth control, I'm so upset to put two and two together and realize maybe this has been caused by the birth control. I have horrible cystic acne which I have never experienced in my life before. I'm so embarrassed of what my face looks like, this started about 2 months ago. I have not been able to lose weight despite changing my diet. I have stayed on this pill as my husband is going to have a vasectomy, so was just going to stay on it until that was done. But after realizing that all of my issues may be due to this birth control I'm stopping it immediately. AVOID THIS PILL - PLEASE!!"
"I was almost too scared to try taytulla after reading the horrific reviews, but I'm on month three and Taytulla has been working WONDERS!! I switched from a very high dosage birth control and I was really scared my body would go whacky on this. My only side effects have been acne and more frequent headaches around the time of my bleed within the first two months, but it's gotten so much better. My periods are really light and painless. My mood is so much more stable, my anxiety has decreased, I feel a lot more full of life and energy! This pill is the one for me. Everyone's body responds to these medications differently, so don't let bad reviews scare you away from giving this pill a try. So far it has worked wonderfully me!"
"I've seen a LOT of negative reviews about Blisovi 24, but don't let that scare you into not trying it. I've been taking this for 3+ years and I've had no issues with it (or at least that I can directly attribute to the pill). Maybe a bit of heightened anxiety here & there, and sometimes vaginal dryness/decreased libido, although I'm not sure if the pills or my own stress was causing that. My periods have been lighter and more regular, and I don't break out often. It does what it's supposed to do. I've stopped taking it for over a month and didn't feel much different in terms of sex drive/anxiety, so I went back on. Of course, not every pill works for everyone, but this one works for me!"
"Blisovi Fe 1/20 is the worst!! It took me over 4 months to realize it's my birth control. I did some research and realized this is the culprit of how bad I've been feeling. I got on this to help with my PCOS, but it gave me even worse symptoms. My boobs hurt bad, my ovaries hurt, I'm tired ALL THE TIME, gained weight, foggy brain, HEADACHES, my vision is blurry all the time, I have loss of appetite, my hair is falling out more, and I keep getting these huge patches of acne cysts! Also, I think I may be allergic. My skin has been so sensitive since I started it. I changed all of my detergents and soaps and nothing helped! I itch all day every day almost all over my arms, legs, ear lobes, scalp, everywhere!! My skin looks like hives all over, even when doing something as simple as changing clothes. It's miserable. I am convinced this is the worst birth control ever!! Would not recommend!!"
"I have never been on birth control prior to this, so I only know how this one (Junel Fe 1.5/30) works and I don't really have anything to compare it to. I will say that it's helped clear up my skin, and I haven't noticed any particular weight gain, other than the fact that I can't seem to lose weight, despite eating better and exercising regularly. Some side effects that I've experienced is an incredible drop in my sex drive, and also a very noticeable appetite difference. I hardly have an appetite for any food ever. I also notice light nausea in the mornings. I had normal periods the first 2 or 3 months, but this last period I had barely came at all, and it was just slight brown discharge for like 4 days. This freaked me out since it hadn't changed my period before, but my doctor did say it takes a few months for your body to sort itself out after you start birth control. Overall, I think it's an ok pill to take if you don't want to get pregnant."
"I've seen so many bad reviews on this medication. And to say the least, every person is different! I've had a wonderful experience taking Taytulla. I'm 18, and I've been on this medication for over a year now. I originally went on it because of horribly painful cramps that would leave me completely unable to function, and I would often violently throw up. It was bad. But after starting to take Taytulla, my cramps have dissipated (the most I ever get are really light cramps or some soreness)! In addition to that, my periods went from a solid medium flow to very light, and instead of being on my period for almost a week I only have it a few days. I'm so grateful for all this medication has done for me. And all I have to say, don't let the bad reviews scare you off!! You never know how your body with react."
"Pharmacy switched me to Junel from Microgestin after several years and I thought nothing of it. I have been on it for about 5 months and from the first month developed an itchy rash that has been progressively getting worse and worse each month. Took me the full 5 months to figure out what I was allergic to...Junel! If it is supposed to be the same medication, why would I get a terrible itchy rash all over my torso from taking it?? After reading the other reviews, I can see now why I was having some really weird period mood swings with lots of crying.  Thanks Junel!!! I'm going back to Microgestin thankfully:)"
"My Doctor recommended this pill to me and it has been horrible. I feel sad and depressed all the time!! I just feel like crying all day for no reason at all!! I have also experienced stomach pains and acid reflux for 15 hrs!! It has killed my appetite. I don't feel like eating anything all day and by chance if I have something filling then my stomach pains (maybe thats acidity). I had never had these problems before!! It's my second month and I can't wait to get off these pills!!"
"""This is a HORRIBLE drug. I've been on it for three weeks, but today was my LAST time to take one of these pills. I will never take another one. 
I have experienced the following:
— extreme tiredness, sluggishness, and loss of motivation
— anxiety and twitchy muscles 
— cramps and spotting
— increased hunger and weight gain despite exercising and mostly clean eating 
— increased time for eyes to focus 
— decreased libido 
— heart palpitations
— general malaise/feelings of being unwell 
Blisovi 24 FE is NOT good for your body or your mind. I am very regretful that I let myself ingest this stuff. Now I am quitting cold-turkey at the end of the third week, hoping that my body will get back to normal soon. Taking this pill was a gigantic mistake."""
"DO NOT TAKE THIS PILL. I took this pill for one week and I'm already experiencing some side effects. I have been throwing up for the past week every morning. I am not able to eat. I haven't gotten my period. Oh and I've been having severe abdominal cramping and diarrhea."
"I've been on Loestrin 24 which became LoMedia 24, and recently switched (2 years) to Blisovi 24 for about 10 years.  I personally love this birth control.  I haven't experienced any significant side effects that were previously mentioned such as migraines.  I have relieved PMDD and virtually no periods at this point.  My vitals, such as kidney/liver function is almost perfect.  I never gained weight or had increased acne, but it did not clear it either.  I am so happy for the active ingredients in this pill.  As I turn 31 and plan to have a family I will miss the ease of no cramps or symptoms."
"My first day taking BC/ Taytulla is horrible. Anxiety attacks, heavy bleeding, and shortness of breath. This is too much for me to handle. Bad experience with Taytulla."
"This is the worst medication. It made my life a living hell. I had two periods a week. Gained 20 pounds. My acne is terrible, my cramps are terrible, and my anxiety is so much worse because of it. DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. Worst thing that has ever happened to me."
"One of the worst!! My sex drive has been so low since taking these pills. On top of feeling depressed and massive anxiety. Worst side effects ever!! And I've been on 10 different kinds to spot my mid cycle periods... this one topped it!!!!!"
"I've been on the pill almost 3 months. My acne has cleared up but I get terrible cramps that have woken me up at night. I also spot a ton. I'll go about 4 days of normal feeling fantastic then I'll spot for 3 days then start to feel normal and then spot for a couple days again, constantly all month. It's light which is a relief but I hate having to constantly worry about when I'm gonna bleed again. My breasts have been tender and grown a bit which I don't mind. I haven't had any headaches, the cramps and spotting are  my only  concerns. I'm staying on this pill to hope it clears up in a couple months. It's also super nice because my insurance coverage is amazing and they have a $25 a month deal that came with my sample, so I've only have to pay $5 for a total of 5 packs!!!!"
"Stay CLEAR of this birth control !!!! I first started this birth control 6 months ago in hopes to help with my heavy bleeding ( it did not help). I gained 30 pounds and my anxiety is through the rough! I am CONSTANTLY sick to my stomach sometimes even vomiting, horrible migraines , abdominal pain , and fatigue to the extreme ! No sleep is enough I ALWAYS feel tired. Do not take this birth control - your mental and physical health isn't worth it."
"I just started this pill on the second day of my period. I'm now in the beginning of the 3rd week of it, and I can say the side effects I've noticed is bloating, boobs have gotten bigger (which is nice for me because they were super small before) and I think my acne has cleared up. I haven't noticed any moodiness or depression which is what I was worried about"
"I started Taytulla to treat my acne and severe period cramps. I have been taking it for a month now and it has helped so much. I no longer get any cramps and my acne is getting much better. The only bad things about it are that it has caused me to gain weight, gassiness, and breast tenderness. But I would still recommend!"
"Literally no sex drive. Kiss on the cheek?? Nah. Whole sex?? No way."
"I did not like this pill at all. Heavy bleeding on the placebo weeks and missing a dose (which I only did once), severe anxiety, more frequent panic attacks, periodic loss of appetite, headaches, and more frequent diarrhea episodes due to worsening IBS. I lost 10 pounds on this in a matter of a few months without diet change because my appetite has been poor and my IBS has been way more severe causing periods of abdominal cramping and diarrhea. Before I switched to this pill, I had a normal appetite, less anxiety, and my diarrhea wasn't this severe. But then, all of these symptoms just hit me right in the face as soon as I started taking this. I will be switching soon. I need to get my sanity and my bowels back."
"""PROS: 
1) helps acne 
CONS: 
1) no libido 
2) increased anxiety"""
"I have been on Taytulla for a little over a year now. I initially was introduced to taytulla due to having trouble going to the bathroom. My period is either very light or ill go a month or 2 without any bleeding or period symptoms. The only thing I have noticed a significant change in my body is my weight gain. Since on taytulla I have gained 30 pounds, because of this I'm considering changing to a different brand. I exercise 3-5 times a week at the gym. I count my macros and have a fairly healthy diet regimen."
"My hormones are whacked and trying to find the perfect pill is like looking for a gold pot at the end of a rainbow for me . This not only gave me 2 weeks of period symptoms and cramps but the acne is unbelievable. Cystic acne at that! Didn't work for me at all"
"I am giving this BC a 5 of 10 solely because it's kept me from getting pregnant however it's not without side affects.  Pros: increased sexual desire, no weight gain, and less cramps and periods (some months I didn't even get my period so I would end up investing in pregnancy tests. Ugh!). Cons: did not improve acne (I still get it during period), and the hormones caused crazy mood swings including panic attacks.  Since being on the pill I've had two panic attacks. I am 38 years old and pretty healthy. I am now looking for an alternative that does not contain hormones. I am trying to convince my husband on the Daysy Fertility Tracker. This will tell us the days that we are safe to have sex and not get pregnant and the days to use alternative contraception."
"Switched from Microgestin and worked exactly the same for me! I just switched to a new medicine but never had issues on this."
"This was prescribed to me by my psychiatrist because I had major mood swings and worsening depression during my periods that affected my daily life. I can say that I've been on this birth control for almost 2 years and I really enjoy it. I've had some months where I bleed a normal amount, but mostly just brown discharge and that's it. Lighter period= less depression and PMSing. I see a lot of bad reviews on this drug, but I used to get really heavy periods and it was so bad, especially bleeding on my pants at school a few times and constantly having to use the bathroom every hour. If your looking for a lighter period. This is it! As for acne, don't really think it helped or broke me out."
"I was taking Microgestin but then my pharmacy switched me to this god awful pill Junel Fe 1/20 when insurance could not cover the Microgestin. This pill sucks. I have been miserable. I have gained a lot of weight EVEN though I eat healthy and exercise daily. I am crying constantly, mood swings, etc. I am barely bleeding on my period and cramping only a little, but that is the only plus side of this medication. DO NOT TAKE THIS PILL"
"I have been on this pill for 2 and a half weeks now. I was on Microgestin and doing just fine but the doctors switched me since it was unavailable. I am having the worst chest pain. Its the left side and behind my breast bone. I have been having palpitations, my heart has pounded and I thought I was having a heart attack until reading some of these reviews. Glad to know I'm not crazy."
"After my pharmacy stopped carrying Microgestin, they switched me to Blisovi without asking. I took it because it is the same dosage, but my body acts completely different to it. I have not gained weight but I am constantly tired. I have deep, painful acne although it says this can be used to clear acne. Generally, I had clear skin before taking this pill with the exception of my period week. My periods are very light and only last around three days, but it is never three consecutive days. I will have it like Tuesday, Wednesday, then Friday. Maybe that is just my body but I have to act like I am on my period all week due to the inconsistency. I do not like this pill and frankly I blame it for my acne and fatigue. I have been on it 4-5 months and I also have trouble staying lubricated during sex, which leads to severe soreness and vaginal tears. I did not have this problem before."
"I have been taking it for about 7 years and it worked perfectly for that long to not get me pregnant... until now. When I first started, it was for PCOS & irregular cycle - I didn't get my period ever. The side effects I remember were mood swings, light spotting & my periods were 1-3 days long if I got it. Some months I didn't get it still. It did help with my cyst pain, but not 100%. It didn't help with acne. A few years in, I would get TERRIBLE bleeding after sex every time, which eventually went away. This year, still taking the pill, I DID become pregnant. I had been taking the pill regularly, rarely missing a day and always taking as soon as I remember - exactly like I had for the years before. Perhaps being on it for SO long impacted my body, perhaps because it is such a low dose of hormones, maybe because I have PCOS... Idk. So just like any pill, you have to remember - they are never 100% effective!!! I switched BCs now and am moving to a higher dose."
"I was afraid I'd experience some of the adverse effects some of the reviewers on here have gone through but the ones I've had are definitely minor and manageable. During the first few months, I would randomly experience a bit of nausea in the middle of the night and sometimes immediately after waking up in the morning, which rarely happens now. I take this BC a few hours before bed and have never experienced nausea during the daytime. The only other difference I've noticed in the beginning was my emotions going from 0 to 100, which would end up with me crying for no reason (only happened about once a month?). I've had no changes in weight or acne amount (still kind of slim with little to no acne). Used to experience bad cramps and incredibly heavy periods and now no cramping and normal periods! Worth the minor side effects for me."
"""I have been on this birth control for about 6 months now. The first month was not fun: a few really bad mood swings and a lot of spotting. I have never had mood swings before in my life so that was pretty scary. Eventually everything levelled out and I'm fine now! I was on the (lowest) dosage right below 1.0/20, but kept having spotting around the middle of the pack, so my doctor switched me to the 1.5/30. I've been experiencing some very light nausea in the morning but nothing crazy. 
I wanted to leave my review for this birth control because of all the negative reviews on here.. I haven't gained any weight, my skin has cleared up and my breasts have gotten maybe 1/2 cup size larger (not a bad thing.. lol). I also must add that I've been suffering with depression my whole life. Before starting BC, I was off my low level anti depressants for about 2 years. After starting bc, I had to get back on a light 10mg of Prozac."""
"I've tried many different brands of birth control and after the first months the side effects have been unbearable. I've been taking Pirmella for 2 months and I've had minor side effects. My breasts do tend to swell up, and I broke out around my jaw which is very rare for me since my skin isn't usually acne prone. I haven't had any mood swings, but I do tend to get nauseous from time to time. So far, better than most BC brands I've tried."
"Taytulla is the 6th birth control pill I've tried. It's the only one that has stopped the constant bleeding and horrendous pain caused by the fibroids inside my uterus. However, it's not without side effects. I haven't had a period in 8 months and I'm not pregnant. So far I've found no one else who experienced this while on this medication, so there's that."
"This pill, this pill. I switched from Microgestin to Junel about 4 months ago and it was the WORST transition. I'm moody/ depressed as anything, having terrible headaches, back is on fire constantly, didn't have a period for three of the four months, nausea when taking it and I gained weight. This is the worst pill I've taken and I've been on BC for 6 years. It did improve my acne which is it's only pro. I would not recommend this medication."
"So if I could give zero starts I would. I was so excited for starting first time birth control, And doctor prescribe me the lowest dose of hormonal birth control pill. I do not recommend anybody to try this pill.  I was just four days on it and I had to stop I got diarrhea since the second day until today. And I'm not even taking it last 5 days.  My hair starts falling off a lot, I have so strong headaches that I never had before. Do not take this pill!!!"
"I have been on several birth control pills as well as depo, and Taytulla is the best! I've been on it for about 7 months now. No breakthrough bleeding, weight gain, and super light periods that only last a day or two. I previously suffered from intense cramping, mood swings, weight gain, and acne but not with this birth control. There's definitely breast tenderness and growth - but I'm okay with that. Not every birth control is for everyone but definitely worth a try."
"Wow, I LOVED this pill!!! Unfortunately it is so expensive so I won't be able to continue on it and will have to switch to a generic but I was on it for a month and had no issues other than 1 1/2 days of spotting, my period had slight cramps but it was pretty light!"
"I was on this pill from age 16-19. I just stopped taking the pill 3 weeks ago. I suddenly developed extreme anxiety diagnosed just 4 months after beginning this pill. Periods were only about 3 days but my period after quitting was about the same flow light-medium just a couple days longer. This pill only helped me by preventing pregnancy, and it helped my face stay clear. But ever since quitting I feel like myself again! I much prefer a clear mind to a clear face."
"So I went to my obgyn back in September 2018 to get on birth control, as I had got a boyfriend and didn't want to get pregnant. I've been taking it every since then and I've gained at least 25 pounds! I also had never really noticed any anxiety or extreme mood swings until I started this bc! I freak out over little things I have major anxiety attacks and crying outbursts especially around or on my period. I have yet to go back to my obgyn to talk about it or change it. The only thing it's done so far is keep me not pregnant. I still would not recommend."
"I switched from Microgestin to Junel in May of 2018. By October my hair was falling out in clumps, my skin had dried so much I was given  medicated moisturizers by my doctor, my stomach swelled and I bled sporadically and I saw an increase in migraines. I'm normally around 120 pounds and I swelled to just under 140 pounds. My insurance company, Cigna brokered a better deal with Junel and made me switch to Junel or pay for Microgestin. After months of side affects I finally decided the money was worth it. Back in Microgestin. Bleeding has stopped, haven't had a headache in two months, swelling went down and I'm back to my regular weight zone and my skin looks great. It was a miserable time in my life and I wouldn't take Junel if it were free...which it is to me, but I willing to pay $20.00 a month for something different. Do your research before complying with your insurance company and be aware that they choose your meds based on their profit margins."
"I started Blisovi Fe around 2 months ago and it's been terrible. I've gained 20lbs and after reading all of these reviews I've realized it was because of this medication. I've been eating healthy and working out for awhile and I've only been able to lose 5lbs when it should be around 10lbs at this point knowing my body. I've also had way more bad mental health days than usual. I hope this medication works for some people!"
"I took minastrin for about a month and had EXTREMELY BAD side effects. I had horrible mood swings, I was anxious and most of all, super depressed. I'd go from okay to crazy in what felt like seconds. It was awful! It also made my breasts swell up about a full cup size."
"I was on Lo Loestrin( Ethinyl estradiol 0.01mg and  Norethindrone Acetate 1.0mg for 24 days, then just the EE for 2 days, then sugar pills a week) for years until insurance changed and would not cover it any longer. I was put on Junel (ethinyl estradiol 0.02 mg and Norethindrone Acetate 1mg  21 days then placebo pills a week) a month ago and I can't take it anymore. My symptoms have been bad cramping, awful acne (my face looks like it did when I was in middle school), pain in my left leg/muscle and in my right arm, and starting last week i have been breaking out in terrible hives. I've never had an allergic reaction to anything before. At first I thought it was maybe my laundry detergent but I've switched and I'm still breaking out in hives. Everyones body is definitely different but I've never had such bad reactions from birth control before. "
"""This medication served its purpose, no pregnancy or pregnancy scares. 
Yet, periods seem to be an extreme hormonal withdrawal and a aterrible emotional state for me. My period was very regular and light but the emotional instability I felt for days during my period was pretty rough. 
Other than that one issue I'd recommend nortrel 1/35 
I'm switching to a cooper IUD to hopefully steer clear of synthetic hormones to try and avoid the withdrawals. Being close to natural always feels best ladies. Best of luck! """
"I changed from trinessa to microgestin because I was feeling depressed and very dry. But I have 5 months taking microgestin and I feel the same, I cry and get mad over nothing and I am always in a bad mood. I just realized reading the reviews that the reason for this are the pills. The only good thing is that I weight the same and I have to acne. I am definitely switching after I finish this package."
"I started taking this birth control around a month and a half ago, I'm also in a relationship and ever since I've started taking it I have been almost constantly overthinking everything, having anxiety, being extremely sad and upset, and crying for no reason. This pill has also started to give me acne again. With all of these side effects (the mood swings being the WORST and most prevalent) I need to stop taking it. I am typically a very very happy and outgoing girl, but ever since taking this I have been a hormonal mess. I don't want this birth control to be the reason I am overly emotional with my boyfriend and constantly creating problems that aren't there. Would not recommend."
"I have been on this BC for 9 months and it sucks! When I first got on it, I spotted a little and it was perfect. I didn't gain weight and when I was supposed to be on my period, it was super light and painless. The first 2 1/2 months that I was on Lo Loestrin was perfect until the end of the 3rd month. I started spotting out of nowhere and I thought it was going to last only a couple of days. I was completely wrong. I spotted for 3 1/2 weeks straight. It was just a little bit each day but it was really annoying. I also noticed that once I started taking the pill, I was unable to use pads because of the uncontrollable itching! I'm also severely anemic so I was weak all of the time when I was spotting. It eventually cleared up and the pill worked perfectly again for another 2 1/2 months until I started spotting again out of nowhere for 7 weeks! I was weak and nauseous all of the time. I finally went to my doctor and I am supposed to change to Sprintec next week."
"Pros: no acne, no pregnancy, regular periods.Cons: weight gain.Water retention and bloating. Had migraines but went away, still get headaches a lot. Breast tenderness. Hair  was thinning out. Dry skin, eyes, vagina. No sex drive, even if I did, the outcome would be dry. Mental cons: Crazy mood swings. Anxiety, insomnia mixed with depression. Stopped the pill for a month. Felt like myself again. Slept sooo good like my body felt like it was healing itself. My groin was feeling flutters like it was on relapse. I was so calm and felt like my outward attitude on everything was wayy more content, happy and more clear. Not agitated so easily. Starting losing weight already for that month. Now I'm switching to another form of BC, but had to get back on the monster pill until I get that. To make sure I don't get pregnant (IUD) So I'm feeling like crap again. Good luck ladies. Experiment cause everyone is different until you find the best for you. This BC just didn't workout for me personally."
"I just started it like two weeks ago but I've been getting acne more often then before and my period is longer than usual and I feel like I've gained weight I stomach always feels bloated and I feel like every time I comb my hair more falls out "
"""I read reviews on this site before I started taking Junel myself and some of the experiences almost scared me away. But I remembered that most people that have bad experiences are the ones more likely to write a review so I decided to still give it a chance. I used to get very painful cramps during my period. And I was always in discomfort because of cysts I had. Now, my bleeding is short, light and pain free and I have no more aches from the cysts. My skin is clearer now too, so that's a bonus.
I admit, the first two weeks, my breasts got very sore and sensitive. But that subsided by week 3. I also got nauseous at first, but again,  went away within the first 3 weeks. I'm on month 4 now and doing well.
The only thing I can say is that I do get more easily irritated than before but it's honestly nothing I can't handle. Overall, I'd take some moodiness over the agonizing abdominal pain I experienced pre-Junel."""
"This birth control made me a different person. Uncontrollable mood swings, thoughts of self harm, depression, I could go on. Be cautious if you begin microgestin, this birth control has by far the most extreme side effects  out of any pill  that I have taken."
"I had had the implant and bled for 5 MONTHS STRAIGHT with no sign of end. I became anemic because of it. Went to Dr, she switched me to the pill. Tarina Fe 1/20 is SO GOOD. I haven't broken out, my periods are 3 days no cramps, I feel less anxious and depressed. Stopped my 5 month period in a week."
"Love this pill. Boosted my sex drive, lightened periods, no breakthrough bleeding, no weight gain (I've actually lost weight), no anxiety/depression. It's awesome. Slight side effect of breast tenderness- but this pill is the ONE for me."
"""I was switched from Microgestin due to insurance (I was on that brand for a year and NEVER had any side effects.) The second I started Junel I turned into a different person. I'm just going to break down my symptoms by month:
Month 1: nausea, two weeks of breakthrough bleeding, migraines, sore and swollen breasts
Month 2: bloating, spotting, headaches, bowel problems, increased appetite
Month 3: EXTREME anxiety and paranoia, worse bloating, mood swings, leg cramps, abdominal cramping
Month 4 : lower back pain, uterine and stomach cramps, intense bloating, mood swings, even worse anxiety. Literally thought I was pregnant this month bc I didn't have any bleeding whatsoever and because my stomach hurt constantly.
Do not take this pill if you have anxiety or depression. It has made me stress about pregnancy more than when I was relying on the pullout method. The ONLY plus side is that my withdrawal bleeds are super light and my acne (sorta) cleared up. I hate this medication."""
"This is the first and only birth control pill I have ever taken. I have been taking it for about 6 years now. The best part of this contraception in my opinion is that I get my period maybe 4-5 times PER YEAR.  With Lo Loestrin, I will get my period maybe every 2-3 months and it is super light and lasts about 3 days. Other than that, I didn't really notice anything with my skin (I have combination skin, I break out sometimes but have always had pretty decent skin). I may have gained a few pounds, but thats expected over the years from high school to college. As for side effects, I've noticed the most that it has SIGNIFICANTLY decreased my libido. That is really my only complaint about it. I have been taking it for so long now, I don't really remember if I had any other side effects in the beginning. As a contraception, I will say it has done it's job."
"For me, this pill has been a life saver. It's really true that every body is so unique and different, and on other birth control options I have experienced many of the side effects people have mentioned. I have had no side effects at all from taking Balziva. I initially pursued birth control as a means of preventing ovarian cysts from forming as mine tend to burst and cause very extreme pain—like, so painful I'm blacking out and have ended up in the ER kind of pain. It has stopped those cysts from forming, and my periods and cramping are much lighter than before. I have tried other forms of birth control—different pills and an IUD—and for me, this works so, so much better for my body chemistry. I hope that for those whom Balziva may not be a fit, that you find the solution that does; it is literally night and day."
"""I've been on this pill for 5 years. I went on it for birth control. It's great for preventing pregnancy, and for setting your periods in a routine - you know when you're due to come on and can plan holidays, etc around it... But for the past year or so I've been experiencing really bad mood swings, dark thoughts, and it's causing relationship problems. I'm constantly up and down, I don't know when my mood will change... I've decided to stop taking the pill now and will consult my doctor. My periods are also a lot more painful now, even though the pill is supposed to prevent discomfort and pain during periods (That's how if was sold to me anyway).
Overall, for the first few years this pill was perfect, but since I hit the 3-4 year mark... it has caused me nothing but problems.
As I'm in the UK, this is prescribed for free on the NHS as it's for birth control."""
"""My doctor prescribed Blisovi due to the fibroids in my uterus I used this medication for 2 months and I got diagnosed with pulmonary embolism blood clot in my lungs, I got hospitalized for 2 days and now I'm on blood thinner.
My life is miserable, I have shortness of breath, pain and severe headache"""
"I was prescribed this pill and was happy to try it as its a "lower dose" pill. Well after the second week of taking this it triggered my migraine associated vertigo, which resulted in me being dizzy for 4 days straight and being sick, so I came it off it straight away. I'm not really sure why this was prescribed to me in the first place if one of the side effects is dizziness!! Also after a few days I had breakthrough bleeding which I've never had before on any pill.. wouldn't recommend!"
"I've been taking Junel fe for about three months after my pharmacy switched me to it from microgestin fe which I fairly enjoyed. In the first month of taking it I had terrible menstrual cramps and I bled for two weeks straight, which was absolute torture. I remember falling to my knees crying because the cramps were that bad. After the two weeks of bleeding everything else has been fine, little weight gain, no noticeable mood swings. And I just skip the placebo week because I don't want to experience cramps that bad again."
"Please do not use this pill. I have breakthrough bleeding for 5-6 days on the active pills and then also get my period on the non active ones. My stomach is bloated, my anxiety is off of the charts, my mood is terrible, and I have no sex drive. I've been taking this pill for about 4 months and didn't get these side effects until after the first month. I do not recommend. The only side positive side effect has been clear skin."
"I was taking both Junel Fe and Microgestin Fe, depending on which pharmacy I was closest to, for over a year. I never had any problems with them. In fact, they made my skin clear and made my periods extremely light and less painful. When my insurance changed my pharmacy, I was given Blisovi Fe. Off the bat, I noticed changes I didn't like. I was feeling anxious all the time for no apparent reason. My skin was breaking out. I began feeling really depressed and getting bad headaches. I also have nightmares almost every night now, which may or may not be caused by Blisovi. My placebo week period was heavy and painful. There have been no substantial changes in my lifestyle or product choices that would explain these changes. They all began when I started Blisovi. It's the only explanation that makes sense, since I take no other meds and as stated, have not undergone any lifestyle changes. I gave Blisovi a 2 month trial and it didn't work out. At least I didn't get pregnant on it."
"I got on this medication for the contraception part but to also help clear my acne (It was pretty severe). I've been on it for about 3 months and have had a lot of improvement. Acne is almost completely gone and I am just left with the dark marks that will hopefully go away with time. I still have a few pimples here and there mainly on my cheeks but that is something I can deal with compared to where I was before. As for the other side effects, mine were no where near as extreme as some people's in these comments. Some weight gain (mainly in my boobs) and almost non existent periods (which I don't mind). I did get a few cystic acne bumps on my cheek but only a couple and they went away within a few weeks. Birth control works differently for everyone though!"
"When I first started taking BC ,I was on microgestin for little over 6 months before the pharmacy had switched it over. Around November of me taking Junel I noticed my body start to change I was moody and irritable all the time. I had went back to the obgyn & she had told me it was the same as my first one it wasn't . One month I had came on my period 3 times and that's not normal. Junel made me very tired & was messing around with my bodily fluids as well.  There are two different strength of these pills, so need to check if I was put on the right strength."
"""I've been Taytulla for about 7 months now.  I've also tried orthotri, loestrin, and nuvaring at different points in my life.
Pros:
- little to no weight change (gain)
- light cycles
- no changes in mood - depress/anxiety
- no change in drive
- longer have the severe back pains I had during my cycle
Cons:
- took 4 months for my body to get used to it, 1 month I had a period, for 3 months I didn't, now I'm back to normal
- noticeable breast tenderness and growth
Overall, I plan to stick with Taytulla"""
"""I had horrible side effects, the main ones being shooting pain under my rib cage, heart palpitations/pressure in my chest around my heart, and a bulging/twitching feeling on my left leg that felt like a vein. The rib pain lasted 2 weeks into the first pack--horrible. The heart stuff happened at the start of each pack--I didn't finish the second pack to find out how long.
Within hours of getting off Junel, I started to feel better. I am now on Microgestin again and feel great. Microgestin is a generic of Loestrin; Junel is a generic of Microgestin. Pharmacies will tell you differently, but, Microgestin is readily available in the US--call around and get what you want!"""
"I've tried several BC pills, and this one is the WORST. Spotting all month long. Cramps, headaches, nausea, moodiness, very tired. Do not take this unless you've done well with low-dose pills in the past. I've tried this one twice and never make it to the end of the pack. A lot of times if you tell your Gyno you're having side effects they'll lower your dose... Sometimes you actually need a HIGHER dose. Try Sprintec...  It's the best one I've used so far! Do not take Lo Loestrin, not even as a free sample pack."
"""•I have been on Larin 1/20 for about 4-5 years now. 
•my periods have become lighter and less painful. 
•I never really have acne. 
• I have gained weight, but there is a lot of factors that could of caused the weight gain."""
"This birth control is absolutely terrible. I was prescribed Lo Loestrin Fe about 6 months back for excruciating cramps, but did nothing so I was prescribed Taytulla recently. I cramp almost all the time now, my breasts are tender, I get sharp, stabbing pains in my lower abdomen, uncomfortable back pain, I have SEVERE chest pain (especially at night), and overall, I've just been feeling really down. It's caused me to gain so much weight as well; in fact, I've gained almost 5 pounds THIS WEEK! The only good thing about this medicine is the fact that it cleared my skin. Everyone has different experiences though, but mine was awful. I do NOT recommend this medicine."
"DO NOT TAKE THIS! This past year has been the worst year ever!!! All of a sudden I have the craziest symptoms that don't go away no matter what I do. Severe migraines ALL THE TIME!!!!!!! I gained 10+ pounds!!! I have never had an issue with weight in my life, I workout 6 x a week, eat extremely healthy and the scale is just going up!! It's effected my mental health so much because it makes you feel like you're going crazy. I'm extremely tired no matter how much sleep I get . My anxiety has been out of control. I'm sad, tired. Irritable all the time for no reason. My stomach always hurts. My periods are so irregular, I won't get a period for a couple months, then I'll spot and bleed randomly all the time. My vision has all of a sudden gotten bad?? I've never had eye problems in my life. I can't believe it's taken me this long to connect these symptoms to this birth control!!! STAY FAR AWAY!!!"
"This would be my 3rd time reviewing. I am a HAPPY camper. I've been on this pill just shy of a year. Despite all of these negative reviews I can personally say that this pill has done nothing but amazing for me. Prevents pregnancy, cleared my acne that I struggled with for years. Very light periods with barely any breakthrough bleeding. No mood swings or anxiety. My weight has stayed the same. My appetite has increased but no weight gain. And I struggled with terrible cramps since being a teen and with this pill I have mild to no cramps at all during the placebo week. Before going off of all these negative reviews give it a try. ITS WORKED FOR me. Everyones body is different."
"This pill is THE WORST. My insurance switched me to this generic version and by only a week in, I was miserable. Breast tenderness, extreme anxiety / moodiness, nausea, achy, fatigue. DO NOT TAKE IT!!"
"I was taking the microgestin 1\20 birth control pills for about 6 months or more and it was one of the best birth controls I used. It gave no side effects at all and it made my periods super light. Then my doctor switched me to the off brand without me knowing. The pharmacy said it's the same dosage and everything, but ever since they switched it I've been having the worst mood swings and my anxiety is high. My mom and boyfriend say I'm always grumpy, been giving attitude for no reason, then start to cry. It's also been effecting where I work because I get annoyed now so my customer service is bad. I've been sleeping way more than I should as well since it makes me feel paranoid all the time which stresses me out more. This is the second time they switched me to an off brand without my permission when the main brand was doing amazing. Both off brands made me feel horrible less than a month of taking them and my family sees I'm not my happy self anymore. I plan on switching"
"I have been on Chateal (bad), Levora (good for one year), Nexplanon (awesome, but bad vaginal dryness), Aubra (worst nausea of my life), Apri (The BEST! Lost all sex drive and my boobs though lol), and Junel Fe 1.5/30 for 3 months. Junel was my worst experience. I am a very stable person and literally thought I was on the brink of a psychotic episode. Now I'm going to try NuvaRing."
"My ob/gyn prescribed Blisovi as an alternative to orthotricyclen lo, which I LOVED. She said all of her patients love it and I would too. In one week, I woke up from a panic attack that was so severe I thought I was having a heart attack. My anxiety was so easily triggered while on this, I had heart palpitations and weird breathing even if I thought of something mildly uncomfortable. My gyno said birth control pill don't cause anxiety and that me and all of the people who said they had issues on internet are wrong, since “no one I've ever given it to has had any issues”. She said all progesterones are the same and that nothing would be different unless I control my anxiety because *that* was the problem. I got a 2nd opinion today and was told that the progesterone in Blisovi is different than Orthotricyclen Lo and that people react differently to each type of hormone. Don't let your gyno bully you into thinking you have to take what they gave you or nothing at all."
"First birth control I've taken. I took it for PCOS, to regulate my heavy/irregular periods,& because I became sexually active (didn't get pregnant) I've taken it for 3 months & will be switching to a different one due to the pill not providing enough estrogen for me. I experienced every side effect but it took away my breakouts, my PCOS pains, & my cramps. It made my breasts fuller/larger (not gonna complain!) The most side effects I had were headaches & nausea (eat before taking or with the pill) I did feel spacey like I wasn't 100% there. I didn't feel suicidal/depressed but my anxiety would spike randomly. My doctor is switching me off of Junel because it made my uterus too thin causing me to spot through the active pills/no period through the placebos. My breasts also became too sensitive. The first 3 months will be hard due to adjustments your body needs to make but it took away my PCOS pains. Even though it didn't work out for me I would recommend this to someone else."
"This is the worst birth control ever. This is the second one that I have used. I switch birth control as I had bad mood swings on my first one. And I just felt it was an lying to myself and others. So I switched. And it was awful. The first 3 months I knew my body had to get used to it but I had very irregular periods. They would never come when I was on the last week of my pills. It would come on the first week of the next pack. Sometimes it wouldn't come at all I was on it for about 5 months until today. About 3 days ago I broke out very awful. If I could put a picture up I would. It is so painful and itchy. It's all over my face. I can't go to class because of how bad it is. My anxiety levels have been very high. I have been very depressed. And really haven't felt like I have the energy do to anything. Please if you are starting this pill read these reviews. I wish I did when I first got them. It helps a lot"
"This BC is the worst. My nausea is off the charts, I feel like I'm constantly going to throw up; although the feeling is strongest when I first wake up or eat something. I literally have no sex drive, just the thought exhausts me which has never been an issue in the past. It also makes me more tired than usual. I've also started developing extremely painful cramps and bloating. Can't wait to switch."
"I recently started taking this 3 days ago for PCOS…  I asked my doctor for something to control facial hair  but it honestly seems like this is a nightmare.  I have a strict skincare routine and rarely ever breakout. Then  3 days in I'm starting to see bumps on my forehead.  I feel like my pores are enlarged, I get nauseous from the smell of food and my vision is blurry….  Also TMI but I get dark colored discharge the size of a crayon?  This is too much for me…  I'll just use my other medications and forget this."
"This birth control caused sharp  excruciating  pain in my lower abdomen in the beginning and I could barely walk without feeling like someone was stabbing my insides. Hopefully it goes away soon though."
"So I had to switch to Alyacen (ethinyestradil 0.035mg and Norethidrone 1.0mg) because insurance change and I was originally on Minastrin (EthyIestradiol 0.02mg and Norethindrone 1mg) started that at 17 and noticed a 15lb weight gain. I athlete in high school a so I can't exclusively state that it was birth control. In October 2016 I switched to Junel. I had no period on either pill. I have had a 35lb+ weight gain. I am currently on a 1300 calorie diet and work out 3 days a week with an active job  with hardly any weight loss. I have also noticed I am an emotional trainwreck. I can't handle confrontation/ constructive criticism. I turn into a defensive ball of anger and tears, even over very minimal things. I have no sex drive. I have had migraines and palpitations. I have felt completely out of it at times, wanting to sit and be alone and I used to be an huge outgoing person.  I even got engaged and my fiance has noticed a change in my sensitivity to things and of course my sex drive. It din't get bad until almost 2 years on this"
"This birth control has been an absolutely awful experience. I have never had anxiety, depression, or any crazy mood swings until I got put on this pill. I have extreme mood swings, anxiety is through the roof, and depression never lets up. I have NEVER had this problem. I cry constantly and couldn't figure out what was wrong with me but finally put it together with this pill. To top it off the first month I bled for the entire month except for 8 days. Not just a little, full on period for the whole month. I have never written a review before so believe me when I say that this pill is horrible. If I could have given it a 0 I would have."
"For a while it was going good but then I started getting all moody and I would be the happiest person one minute and crying the next and it caused a lot of problems with me and my boyfriend"
"I have been on Junel Fe 1/20 for about 6 1/2 months. I was prescribed it because of how painful my periods were. My periods used to be very heavy but they are now extremely light and last about 3 days at the most. No cramps at all! That's the good part. I have never had clear skin but for the most part I could cover it with some concealer and be fine. Now I have acne all OVER my face. My cheeks, chin, and forehead. Never in my life have I had any on my cheeks. Even though I have much better periods it's not worth the painful acne on my face. I thought after the first 3 months my acne would subside but now on the sixth month I can't take it anymore. Going to switch my birth control next week and hoping that would clear up my face."
"I've been on birth control for 3 years now. I switched to Tarina because I was experiencing bad anxiety and mild depression and my doc recommended this lower dosage pill. Luckily didn't experience any significant weight gain. But my anxiety and depression got worse. I have even more terrible mood swings and am so sensitive and emotional. On the bright side, my periods are light and only last 3-4 days and the cramps are tolerable. However, I noticed that my "periods" were getting more inconsistent and I wouldn't start on the same day like I was used to, but I always bled every month until this one. This month, I had absolutely no "period". I'm very good at taking the pill (if I'm late, its only by an hour or 2) and I understand that its completely normal to not have withdrawal bleeding while on the pill but this had never happened to me in the 3 years I have been on birth control. I ended up not being pregnant but this made me go insane. I'm definitely going to change to another brand."
"""I've been on this for three weeks and nauseous the whole time. I haven't stopped bleeding since I started it. I have PCOS and wanted something to help with cysts. I was on Femcon for years, but they took me off when I had an odd pap. I've since had a child and been off BC for years. 
This stuff just makes me feel awful. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone."""
"This was my first ever birth control I started at age 18. It was the best birth control ever; no acne, no weight gain, no decreased sex drive, average periods, always on the same exact day/time and ending on the same time. Only negatives were I felt anxious/sad sometimes. I am now 20 and switched to a different birth control which completely messed me up in all of those aspects. I am literally jumping with joy to be switching back to Larin."
"I want to thank all the other women coming forward about the horrible side effects of being switched from regular microgestin to this medicine by the pharmacist. I hadn't pieced this all together: why the immense anger, anxiety, sleeplessness, swelling in my legs  &  22lbs of weight gain in 4 months after being about the same weight for 5 years! It's been a horrible 18 months for me. This month, I opted to skip birth control to see if it helped the bloating & moods swings and it did. I peed all the time lost tons of water weight, slept through the night and could button my jeans again. I went to start my birth control today, the Blisovi, I hesitated & decided to do some research and found all of these voices. I am exhausted by our struggles and doctors saying all generics are the same. Stick with microgestin and if you are one of the new users who thinks it's great, track your weight, mood and sleep over at least 6 months and see if you don't notice a change."
"So, I would first like to say that I have never done a review on anything before. But, after reading so many horrible reviews on this pill, I thought maybe I could help women out there make a choice about this birth control. For starters, I am a woman who's anxiety has anxiety no lie lol! So, when I read these reviews before taking the pill I legit thought I was either 1) going to lose my mind, 2) have no sex drive 3) gain tons of weight. And that was scary in itself. But, I have always suffered from irregular periods and I had to get them under control. I am into my second month on this pill and I absolutely love it! No mood swings (other than the normal week before period) no depression, no extra anxiety, no weight gain and my periods were WAY lighter and barely any cramping and lasted 4 days instead of 7. The first 4 days of taking the pill I did feel a little extra tired and a little off. But, after that it's been perfectly fine! Highly recommend!!"
"This birth control has made my periods and overall symptoms worse than ever. I started taking it to help with my irregular periods, which after a few months, it did. But every other aspect of my periods have become worse. I used to have light periods with no symptoms, but after taking this birth control, I have had heavy periods with bad cramps, and I've developed cystic acne all over my chin and jaw. I've tried this birth control a few times over many years, but I'm finally quitting it for good. It has been awful to my skin and made my periods miserable, I cannot recommend this to anyone with relatively normal periods, because it has only made mine worse."
"Ive only been taking this since November of last year, so about 3 months,  the first  month was rough and i got my period lighter the second month i noticed a slight weight gain and bloating with a plus side of my acne clearing and my period was even lighter.  Yes I have anxiety even before the pill has it made it worse? I thought so at first but i dont think so. The first 3 months is your body getting used to things , the bloating went down and so far no period.  My mood swings are normal and my anxiety went back to being occasional.  Then again i take my pill in the morning if that makes a difference. :)"
"I got on it to reduce my heavy flow and painful cramps which literally caused me to throw up basically every month. The first month was weird with breakthrough bleeding and some nausea. But after the first months and for about a year my cramps were nonexistent and my flow lasted 2 days max instead of 5 to 7. The absolute worst part was that I had clear skin before using Junel and now I have acne all over my forehead, which is lessened noticeably during the week with no hormones. I thought this would go away but it never did. About 1.5 years in, all the symptoms of cramps and heavy flow and nausea came back. I initially thought I somehow got pregnant but it turns out that my body just got used to the level of hormones so I had to switch to a different pill with a different dosage, hoping it clears my acne"
"My daughter is 31 and started on Taytulla 6 months ago.  Two weeks ago she experienced right side numbness while taking a shower before work.  She was rushed to the hospital at 6:15 am with right side paralyses and yellowing whites of her eyes. By 8:30am they came to us with her CT results.  She had a 3cm tumor on the motor skills portion of her brain which all the doctors here in Tennessee said was inoperable.  The only change in her medications and environmental factors was the introduction of Taytulla. Leading up to her diagnosis she suffered terrible mood swings, anxiety attacks and night sweats. After further investigation of this medication you can see that 3.3 out of 100000 developed some type of liver tumor. The greed in this country has made it acceptable to give a 3.3 a death sentence if it works for 99997 women. This is unacceptable in my book! Shame on you!!!"
"So this is the first oral contraceptive I've used, but I can honestly say that for the most part I would recommend it. Since being on this medication I have lost weight, experienced relief from the killer cramps I have before, protected myself from pregnancy, and have little to no period. I will say the downside is my PMS week. I feel very depressed sometimes and I break out, but it's only during that week. Typically it's around the chin area when I break out, so I know it's definitely hormonal. For the most part, it's not so bad!"
"I got put on Nortrel 777 about 5 months ago. BAD idea. I have been having cluster headaches almost every day, I can sleep a full 24 hours and still feel tired. My cramps are worse but I barely bleed. My eating is fine, no bloating, and haven't noticed any weight gain . I don't recommend this birth control. I have anxiety and depression, this pill has made everything worse. I'm going to dr tomorrow to get off this pill."
"I have been on this medicine for 6 weeks and switched from Lo loestrin FE due to continuous bleeding every other week. This medicine was great and I had no side effects or bleeding until 3 weeks in. I have started to get nauseous when eating once a week, which was fine because I figured it was just a side effect of the pill. This week I actually had to leave work early and be rushed to urgent care because I was so nauseous, lightheaded, and pale for hours. We thought I had the flu, but the next day I was fine other than some cramps and spotting which leads me to believe it was side effects of this medicine."
"I'm so surprised by these negative reviews. I've been on Junel Fe 1/20mg for over 2 and a half years, I never once had a single side effect - other than my skin becoming perfect :) Everyone reacts differently to medication, but don't let these bad reviews scare you. It's been wonderful for me."
"Previously I was taking microgestin birth control, but was switched to this due to the pharmacy being out of microgestin. The first month or so I liked it, then it all changed...I began having horrible cramps, breakthrough bleeding all the time, my face is broken out worse than it has been my entire life, and my anxiety is through the roof. Birth control has always made me a little emotional, but this pill is absolutely driving me insane. I start back on the microgestin today. Thankfully."
"This was my first birth control I have ever used and the side effects are constantly changing. First 3 months were great besides some irregular bleeding. Then came the 6th month mark with shorter periods but also severe anxiety and depression. After coping with that my migraines got worse and eventually started having auras. In the last year I gained 20 pounds and breasts went up 2 sizes. Yes this medication did the job, but be prepared for all the side effects it has."
"I'm a new nurse and have been taking this medication for 5 months. It started out with some little heart palpations and full blown anxiety. To the point where it affects my life negatively. Along with awful weight gain and acne. Would never recommend."
"HORRIBLE! Within a couple of days of taking this medication I started feeling irritable, anxious, nervous, sad, just extremely overwhelmed with emotions. I had horrible headaches, pelvic pain and chest pain you name it! I had a low sex drive which was very unusual but also made me have bad vaginal dryness. I stopped  taking it halfway into my second week and right away I felt like myself again. This pill was really mucking me up in every way possible. My poor boyfriend must have hated me during this time, I nearly drove him crazy too lol."
"Horrible! I was switched to this pill to help regulate my periods. I never even got that far. My emotions are going crazy!  Extremely agitated and a lot of anxiety.  I am a pretty easy-going person and I kicked in a cupboard in my garage because it wouldn't close!  I feel like I have to force myself to be nice, and that is just not me!  They also made me extremely cloudy I keep repeating the same questions and I don't remember asking them. So I am done with this horrible pill!"
"I was prescribed Lo Loestrin after my previous birth control pill gave me cervical ectropion from too much estrogen (I randomly began to have intense bleeding after sex and would spot for weeks). The first few months were rough, I spotted on and off for weeks at a time but then that suddenly stopped. It also completely “healed” my cervical ectropion which is a huge win!! Only problem now is that I am breaking out on my chin and I gained 15 lbs since November. I literally can't lose a pound to save my life despite my diet and workout regime which has worked well for me in the past when I want to lose weight. Also, beginning in November I am suddenly getting two periods a month. Might try to switch off this brand. The whole weight gain thing and two periods a month sucks."
"I just started week 3 on this birth control and I HATE it! I have gained 5lbs and can't stop eating; I am constantly hungry, even when I know I'm full I still want to eat. I feel tired and have very little energy. My mood is very blah and I have no sex drive. I'm getting my tubes tied next week and cannot wait to be off birth control pills for good!"
"I just finished my fourth pack. I am pleased with the product, and like most, was nervous because of the reviews. The first month was mood swing after mood swing and some nausea but* after that hump I've been smooth sailing. I have bleeding for 2-3 days which is nice compared to the long 7 days without it and the normal period before and during symptoms. The only thing that hurts is the price. My insurance covers about 75% so it's still pretty expensive. I have had no weight gain or crazy acne. I will take this pill as long as I can afford it."
"I've been taking this pill for probably two years And for awhile everything was great but now recently for a few months I've been dealing with major vaginal dryness.  I've gone to the doctor and each time  negative for everything and then found reviews on this pill and boom found my cause.  Besides the sand dune down below I've noticed I cry on the dime for no reason and I have been breaking out on my chin.  As of today my pack of what's left of my pills are in the garbage and I'm ready to begin feeling normal again."
"I have just started my 4th month of this brand of birth control. I started it particularly for my heavy and extremely painful periods. The very first month on it I had NO period at all, which freaked me out. I am 24 and have never missed a period in 8 years. Second month I had my period, but extremely light and short, I almost couldn't count is as a period. Third month a normal period came right on time after the 3rd week as scheduled. It has cleared up my face immensely since I began it, and I have not noticed any weight gain at all. However as I just started my 4th month on it, I have noticed a very deep “sadness” or “depression” which is not like me at all! I cry over simple things and generally just feel down. Hoping this goes away- otherwise the pill works just as it should."
"This pill is awful! Wish I would've read these reviews before starting. THIS IS ALL TRUE-- Depression, anxiety, headaches, nightmares, nausea, weight gain, sore breasts, tired all the time. I've only been on it 3 days (just threw away the pack) and very in touch with my body. I knew immediately that this was the cause of all these negative symptoms. I will NEVER ingest this pill again!"
"Doctor put me on this due to irregular cycles. The reviews were split down the middle so I decided to give it a try. It's only been week two and I'm already spotting (too be expected) but I was not expecting period symptoms. I feel like I'm on the first day of my cycle- cramping, back pain, bloating, gas, etc. I know you're supposed to "ride it out" for a few months but I don't feel like doing so.  I also had weird aches and pains over my body. I was on orthro tricyclen lo before and had no side effects. I was excited to not have a period for once. I'm stopping this pill today."
"I was prescribed this birth control pills and was only on the pill for about a month.  Less than a week into my second month I began to get very irritated. I enjoyed the pill for about the first month but the week my period was to come that's when the irritation began. However it did help clear my skin and it did glow I didn't want to stop taking that specific birth control pills because that was a good benefit but the irritation I couldn't tolerate. I had to get rid of those pills after my first period during the first month of my birth control pill because of the adverse side effects."
"Used this birth control for 4 months now and it gave me really bad acne my boobs became bigger and bigger (now happy about that) and the top of my hair started thinning. Gained a bunch of weight. This and the depo shot I can honestly say have ruined my life. I don't feel pretty or confident."
"I've been put on birth control for ovarian cysts and I am going crazy. I'm barely on my third week of the first pack and I'm already getting hyperpigmentation spots on my body, terrible rash on my hands, a huge TON of acne, PAINFUL pustule acne, lots of heart palpitations from anxiety which is getting very severe, and my depression is getting worse. I can't even look people in the eyes because I feel so ugly. My self esteem is down the toilet. i hate this pill. don't take it."
"I have been taking this pill for a little over 2 months now because I previously had very severe cramping. I have had persistent break through bleeding that lasts about 2 weeks added onto my regular period. Not to mention that my skin has gotten much worse since I've started taking the pill. I do admit my period is half as long and my cramping isn't nearly as bad, but I still do get some occasionally."
"Okay so I wrote a review on this BC a while back giving it an 8, but I'm back again to give this a 2 and here's why. This has helped clean up my acne, its helped regulate my period and I'm not pregnant, thats why I'm giving it a 2. I'm also giving it a 2 because this BC has turned my into a maniac. Sorry if that sounds bad to anyone but seriously, my emotional state has just gone off the railings. I literally cry EVERYDAY. A lot of the time its for no reason. I've been getting really upset with my boyfriend over nothing half the time. I'm over-dramatic, impulsive, irrational. I'm surprised my boyfriend hasn't dumped me yet. Last night I had a bad episode and he told me he KNOWS it this birth control and that I have to stop taking it because its affecting my mental health and our relationship. When I say I cry everyday, I'm not joking. Guys please stay away from this pill, all I wanted was to regulate my period, not become a psycho."
"My doctor switched me to Taytulla after being in Loestrin for nearly ten years. He claimed he was switching me so that I would have an even lower dose of hormones since I had been on birth control for a long period of time. I wasn't really happy about switching.  Well fast forward only four months later and I was in the ER with severe chest pains, blood pressure of 190/130 and a pulse of over a 170 BPM.  After a CT scan it was determined I had a pulmonary embolism. A very large one found in my left lung, along with many small ones found in both lungs.  All of my doctors have narrowed the cause down to birth control. I never had a single issue with taking Loestrin and only four months after switching have a PE. I don't think it was a coincidence that it happened after switching to Taytulla. Please me cautious and advocate for yourself if you know something is not normal."
"Been on this birth control for about a five months. Although the pill completely stopped my periods. I've had uncontrollable mood swings. Many panic attacks, paranoia and signs of depression. Also worsened my cramping and made me lose 10lbs (which I have issues with gaining weight). Thinking about stopping the pill completely to see if i'll go back to being myself. DO NOT take this pill if you have an issue with anxiety or depression!!"
"It does its sole purpose of preventing pregnancy, and it cleared up my moderate acne. However my sex drive completely went away and I experienced a significant amount of anxiety to the point of having to leave classes half way through. I will be switching to a new pill."
"""I have two teenage daughters on Taytulla and they both really like it.  No issues other than the initial adjustment of some spotting with the first pack.. maybe a little more emotional for the first 3 packs, but nothing more than typical PMS.  
As a mom I read all these reviews and got a little freaked out.  I wanted people to know that this pill seems to work for them and they will continue to take."""
"Worst experience with this birth control. I have been taking this for about 6 months and this has made me extremely irritable my hormones are all over the place I feel like I had no control of my emotions. I gained 10 pounds even though I was eating healthy and exercising and I was always bloated! I had brain fog all day and was constantly sleepy! The ONLY plus side to this pill is how clear my skin was. So over all I do not recommend this birth control especially if you  suffer with anxiety."
"I have been taking Mibelas for around 4 months after my insurance switched me from Minestrin. I never had issues with anxiety until I started taking this medication. I'd have a panic attack once or twice a day. I had difficulty staying asleep and would wake up in the middle of the night. I had extreme moods swings. I was either angry or crying and unable to control it. I had my doctor rewrite me a prescription for minestrin not allowing for the generic. I'll pay out of pocket to avoid taking this drug."
"I feel compelled to write this review given all of the terrifyingly bad reviews I read when I was prescribed Lo Loestrin. I was actually put on it for heavy bleeding and I was worried that I would become depressed, gain weight, and gain acne, but none of that is the case. Before taking Lo Loestrin, I had irregular, week long periods with extremely heavy bleeding (to the point where I used 4/5 super tampons a day) and horrible cramps. I have been on the pill for 2.5 months now and absolutely love it. I spotted on and off for the first 2 months, which is normal and tolerable. Other than that, my period has been really light and has not lasted more than 3/4 days. I did experience some nausea at the beginning and have perhaps been more emotional than normal. Overall, while there may be mild side effects, they are completely outweighed by how much less miserable my periods have become. Remember that most people with positive results don't review a product, so don't let the horrific reviews sway you away from trying it."
"Previously spent 1 year on Lo Loestrin, recently started using it again. The worst symptom for me both times has been extreme nausea and occasional vomiting if I don't eat a substantial meal before taking it. I've found the nausea is much more infrequent now that I'm taking this pill in the evening, but I still have to make sure I'm eating consistently and drinking a lot of water to prevent it, which I should be doing anyway! Only other negative side effect is that my preexisting anxiety can be a bit worse at times, but it's still manageable. Giving this an 8/10 because everything else is positive: much lighter, short periods, improved complexion, and no weight gain. I went back to this pill because the benefits are personally worth it to me. It's definitely worth trying out."
"I have been taking Junel Fe 1/20 for a little over a year now and I am very pleased with it. I was really scared to go on any sort of birth control this being my first one because of all the stories of weight gain and bad experiences. Thankfully I haven't had to switch. I did notice at month six I started getting migraines and was extremely nauseous to the point that strong perfumes made me gag. I thought I was pregnant, after a couple pregnancy tests I realized it was just birth control side effects and decided to overlook it and see if it went away. After about a month and a half later the symptoms subsided and I haven't felt anything since. Overall happy with this pill but I do accept I've been moodier since I've started it."
"I started this for my heavy periods on December 16th, 2018, (so a little over a month ago). It was a Sunday and the 1st day of my period. My period was lighter than usual. I experienced some breakthrough bleeding between January 7th, 2019 (which is when I got my 2nd period on this medication). It was very light and only lasted 4 days and I had no pain which made my happy. However, it's now January 20th and for 2 days, I've been bleeding. I think it's my period and not breakthrough bleeding because I am experiencing cramps and just not feeling well. This pill also caused me to have nausea, a headache, and quite a few pimples. I am going off it as soon as I finish the package."
"Okay, so I've only been taking this medicine for about two weeks and I'm already getting weird side effects. For some reason I am getting this strange water retention in my hips and stomach, making me look like I'm bloated all the time.  All of the sudden my breast tissue is becoming saggy instead of firm like before, and my boobs look like they're SHRINKING instead of growing. My skin looks clear but the skin on my eyebrows is having a terrible reaction and my eyebrows are falling out worse then before....I don't even know what's happening because my mental health has felt so much better after taking this, but I don't really like what it's doing to my body. I'll probably ask for a different birth control from my OB since this is my first experience with a birth control, but these effects on my body are just too weird and almost make me not want to go on the pill again. This is not my body."
"I hate this pill!  I started taking this about 4 months ago, really didn't notice an issue.  Then, about a few weeks ago, I noticed my migraines have gotten worse, last 2 weeks I've had about 2-3 per week.  I haven't been on the Pill for over 3 years and I started being sexually active again.  I have also been feeling very light-headed and dizzy, like the room is spinning!  Now that I'm not seeing this new guy as often, I'm just going to stop cold turkey.  I was on Yasmin a couple years ago, I stopped because of the migraines.  And now, the same issues are coming up.  I guess I can't take the Pill anymore!   Oh well, and it's totally not worth being in pain all the time and I'll just use condoms for now on."
"I am a 20 year old women and this is my first time ever going on birth control. Obviously birth control effects everyone differently, but this birth control is not the one for me. The first couple months were rough on this birth control. I was breaking out more than usual, high anxiety and depression and I was just a mess. I was breakthrough bleeding every month. Then month 3 got better for some reason and I thought I was adjusted and life was great. Now I'm on month 5 and the same symptoms from the beginning months are coming back. I've been taking this consistently too so I don't know what the deal is. Lately, I've been so irritable and cry at everything. I've been starting so many fights with my boyfriend because I'm in such an emotional state. I've also been bleeding for 2 weeks now and I can't take it anymore. I am switching to a new birth control once this pack is finished and I can't wait. The only good thing is that it prevented pregnancy for me."
"""I've been taking this pill for a year. My periods used to be regular and heavy. Now they are irregular (may have more than 1 in a month) but very light, still experiencing painful cramps. Lately my breasts have been sore all the time
Before and after my period they just hurt all the time. I hate having to be on birth control but I don't want to get pregnant so I take it. I go back to the doctor next month hopefully things can get better."""
"Please never take this pill! I am typically not the type to write out reviews, but I felt like it was necessary for this one. I've been on birth control for about 8 years and have only had to change my brand 3 times because my pharmacy stopped carrying two of them. My pharmacist recently told me they no longer had the Microgestin I had been on for years so they were going to change me to Junel. I noticed acne right away and I am typically not one to ever get acne. I spoke to my doctor about changing but she said to try it out for at least a couple of months til my body adjusted. I continued to have  acne flare ups that I have never had in my life. I could not control my mood swings and found myself becoming really irritable and crying for no reason. I spoke with my doctor and am now changing my birth control (BC). This is a major warning especially coming from someone who's tried other BC and never experienced anything like this until starting Junel."
"I'm not exaggerating when I say this pill has ruined my life. I was switched from Microgestin because I was experiencing break through bleeding.  I have been on Junel for about a year now, and a few months after starting, I became very ill. My digestive system is a wreck, I'm constantly fatigued, and I developed orthostatic hypotension. I also have not had my period in literal months. I'm seeing my Dr. soon, to be taken off this evil pill. The only good thing I can say about it is that I'm definitely not pregnant!"
"I took the pill for 3 months. 1st month terrible. I was ravenous. If I did not eat I felt sick. I took the pill mid day. I also bled the entire time. I had cramps had headaches  and could not sleep for several days straight. My gyno decided to switch me to Loestrin Fe 1/20. However the reviews are terrible for it too. Overall I would not recommend this pill."
"""I have been on Microgestin for 6 years. I don't have any side affects no weight gain, acne, mood swings or anything like that. My only problem is yeast infection every month before I finish my 3rd week of taking a pill I get yeast infection and it drives me crazy. My doctors did all kinda of testing  everything out but nothing only thing is my birth control
Pills that I take. Does anyone else have issues like this with a Microgestin??"""
"I switched to this pill because insurance allowed for you to get 4 packs at a time in order to skip periods completely. My periods are incredibly painful.  I took Junel Fe for about a month. Took me a minute to make the connection, but I gained 15 lbs in a month and I work out 6 days a week and eat well, so this was unusual. The final straw for me was last night when I ended up in the ER for excessive bleeding. I've been on my period, not spotting, but a full period and heavy for about 2 weeks.  I switched back to microgestin Monday and am still bleeding, so I think Junel did some serious damage. In my 20 years of using the pill I've never had any problems like this.  Never again. Docs still don't know what's wrong with me, Ultrasound scheduled for tomorrow."
"First I wanna say I have never been on birth control I am 24 years old .this is my first time being on birth control. I've been on this birth control for about three months now.  The first few weeks my mood swings were horrible my boobs grew !!! I feel the difference ...and I haven't gained any weight at all ! Actually this birth control kind of slow down my  appetite.  Now  after the few weeks went by everything  has been fine with me.  My period is back on track how it used to be .I  have no problem with this birth control but every women body is different so I really didn't have any bad  experience with this birth control I hope this help"
"I started this pill in May of 2018 and I'm currently still on it. The good: I had no weight gain, I never experienced any pain, my period went from 7 days to 4 days, and I had unprotected sex and haven't gotten pregnant *knock on wood*. The bad: I feel like I've become extremely depressed, anxious and impulsive since the end of June to now. So much changed within me that I feel it really affected me and the people around me. I have mild mood swings now, any teenage girl has these but it feels a little more extreme. I'm considering getting off of it just because I don't feel like myself and I've become impulsive and I want to say a little bit bipolar. I never had these mental issues before I started taking it. I recommend this product, everyone has different side effects but be cautious if you feel like you mental health has become worse then maybe get off of it."
"This really helped me! I have two chronic illnesses, POTS and Ehlers Danlos Syndrome. My skin cleared up, no period cramps, light period, and it balanced my hormones to where I am much calmer."
"I have been in Taytulla for about a month and a half now. This is the first type of BC I have ever tried. Since starting, my periods have stopped with some breakthrough bleeding in the first month and now just some light spotting. After reading these reviews, I understand why I have been so emotional. I am known for my thick skin, but after starting this pill, I noticed I would become so upset, almost to the point of crying, which is NOT me. Also, I just had my first anxiety attack EVER. I have never struggled with depression or anxiety in the past, but now I feel in a constant slump which scares me. My once clear skin is now in a terrible breakout. I understand that I still need to give time for my hormone levels to balance, but is this normal? Especially a "mild" BC like my gyno described it as? I feel like a pimpled face hormonal freak, which is making me crazy. I am planning to finish out my sample pack. Set an appointment this week with my GYNO to hopefully resolve this issue..."
"So I normally do my research before I take any medication! I took my normal trip to my OB with trying to control and irregular period. I needed some relief  I was having my period for as long as a month at a time. Dr prescribed this BC because he stated it also had Iron in it . I was super convinced. I been on this medication for about 4 days now . I normally get occasional anxiety but not like this! Crying spells, tingly body . Something felt wrong. Luckily I had a bottle of low dose Xanax prescribed by dr a year ago due to anxiety. I have always been able to keep my anxiety under control.  I have never felt anxiety like I did today ! it was horrible. After never taking Xanax in my life or anxiety medication , Today was the first day I HAD TO TAKE A XANAX to help cope with the MAJOR ANXIETY! I was feeling . I felt instant relief. I was always scared to take Xanax. Thank you to this BC to push me to the edge to take one. Please don't take this contraceptive pill . Panic Attacks all day are not fun!"
"I have been on this pill for about two months. I normally take Microgestin but was given this prescription randomly. First month was fine,  I didn't notice any changes. Second month, I am a complete psychopath. Extremely irritable, constant mood swings, crying literally all of the time. Gained weight and developed acne. I would highly avoid taking this pill."
"This brand of birth control was my first ever brand prescribed to me, and I haven't switched it and don't plan to. It works perfectly for me as birth control, and I have not had any side effects that other people have reported having. But everyone reacts differently."
"""Keep in mind that most reviews are negative. This is because negative experiences motivate people to write comments more than positive ones. Each body responds differently to types of hormonal birth control (BC) pill. All BC pills have about a 3-6 month adjustment period, meaning you may experience some negative side effects during this time that will likely be gone after that. I had nausea and headaches during the first 3 months which is now gone. You are also at risk of side effects if you do not take the pill correctly. If you miss pills or take them far apart/close together, you can have negative side effects. Take them at the exact same time every day.
Negative side effects (first 3months):
Headaches
Nausea
Increased appetite
Light cramping
Positive side effects:
Extremely light bleeding on break weeks
No or rare cramping
Acne gone
Helped hormone depression
Helped blood sugar
Weight loss
No pregnancy
I love this pill, I've been on it for a year. It does so much good for me."""
"Taytulla was the first birth control I ever used. I have PCOS as well as insulin resistance, before taking taytulla I would have terrible PMS and lots of hair loss. The first month of taking taytulla was pretty rough due to lots of mood swings and 15 days of spotting! However, after the spotting stopped I noticed that my acne decreased, my hair loss decreased, and my mood was much more stablized. Unfortunately I had to stop taking Taytulla after 2 months because my insurance stopped covering it. I did not gain any weight on the pill even though I am insulin resistant which is great. I think this is a great pill for people to start out with."
"I stopped taking birth control for 8 years and was prescribed this medicine for heavy periods. Within a few days of taking this medicine I noticed really bad headaches and acne which I normally don't have. This medicine made me feel funny in the head. Not worth it. I'd rather suffer with heavy periods."
"""Like so many others, I've been on Microgestin for years before the pharmacist randomly put me on Blisovi. I've always had anxiety, but being on this pill made it even worse! I was breaking down crying randomly and having more panic attacks. I also developed depression; I stopped enjoying the things I used to love doing. I also gained 15lbs since taking it from March 2018 - January 2019. My sex drive also decreased. I didn't realize the pill was most likely responsible for my anxiety and depression, I thought it was my original diagnosis getting worse. 
The only good thing this pill did was prevent pregnancy and stop my migraines. I took them continuously to skip my periods, never had break-through bleeding or cramps."""
"I too was on necon for years. Had to switch to nortrel. Can't tell the difference!! No side effects. I'm 47 and been on the pill since 18. Sex drive is somewhat low. But is that just the pill? Probably not!!!"
"This pill was great at first, besides killing my sex drive there were no bad side effects. About 5 months in I got severe nausea after every meal, and it felt like meals from last week were still in my stomach. I got horrible motion sickness in the car. Days later the nausea was 24/7, not just after meals, and I took the pill at night which my doctor suggested to ward off the nausea. I decided to take a break, first day off the pill the nausea subsided and 3 days later I feel the best I've felt in months! Never nauseous anymore, and my sex drive is returning already. I did enjoy that this pill could be used to skip periods, but it lowered my quality of life so much that I think I'd rather just have the period once a month, rather than severe nausea affecting my daily life and jeopardizing my job. Boss was getting tired of my call outs."
"I guess this BC is definitely doing what it's supposed to, I was taking it primarily for my irregular periods and ovarian cysts, so it seems to be helping with that. My OB-GYN switched me to this from Taytulla, but ever since I've been on Junel, I have had anxiety and depression that had been slowly getting worse, and having pretty bad mood swings. I was convinced everything was going to go wrong and was stressed about things I had no reason to. Didn't have this experience on Taytulla, so I've definitely not taking Junel anymore."
"This is by far the worse birth control I've been on. At first everything was fine and I had no side effects.  Then about 6 months in I began to suffer from severe cystic acne all over my cheeks and chin to the point where I went to the dermatologist to get a prescription to help clear it up because at that point Junel Fe had been helping with my periods (I didn't have one for about 4 months), and I didn't want to switch bc yet. None of the medication from the dermatologist has helped and then I began bleeding for about 2 months. My skin has gotten worse (horrible scarring and painful acne) and it has greatly affected my self esteem and mood. I am hoping to switch over to something else ASAP. I highly DON'T recommend this one."
"It's my second month and I don't think I've had any side effects other than acne. My skin is usually pretty clear but lately I've been getting patches of painful pimples near my jaw area, which is what hormonal acne is. I'm hoping my body just needs to get used to it but I may try switching if it's not gone by next month"
"This is the worst birth control I've ever been on! My acne is terrible and I've gained 10lbs since first taking it in December 1 and it's only January 12. I have had terrible anxiety and some bouts with depressing thoughts! I got on to stop my bleeding but it's only increased! My boobs hurt and I'm done taking it! I got my tubes tied 3 years ago it's highly ineffective for me!"
"I have been using this birth control for about 3 years and it works. I did not experience any changes in my mood or body, but keep in mind that my body is not sensitive to the side effects of medicines."
"After reading all of these reviews, I was extremely nervous to start this new birth control (BC). For months I was taking a BC called femynor after my insurance changed my medication from orthocyclen. I became extremely depressed and basically just dealt with it because it did the job. After about 6 months I was so depressed that I was crying almost every day about the smallest things and finally called my doctor and told her what had been going on. She decided to switch me to microgestin but my pharmacy provided me with blisovi (what my insurance covered). I've been on it for about 2 weeks now and I feel so AMAZING that I HAD to write a review. I felt a change right away. All of a sudden I feel like myself again. I'm so much happier and productive. I will probably come back and write a review when my period comes  because I don't know how that is going to go yet but as of now I'm very happy with this medication"
"This birth control  wasn't that bad considering it was my first one I ever took. It didn't affect my weight, nor my mood yet it did cause me to have abnormal spotting/bleeding for about the first 2 weeks out of the first month I took it, and I did get painful acne."
"I just had second baby, had been taking Lo Loestrin for 10+ years. My hormones were completely out of whack. I was extremely emotional, mood swings, heavy periods, overall miserable. My OB switched me to this birth control. First week a little nauseous but I'm on week 3 and my periods are lighter and I'm MUCH better hormonally. They have a coupon now until June you can get it for $25.00 BUT after insurance may cover and it's 100+."
"I have been taking Junel for about a year and a half close to 2 years and I can say that I barely have periods anymore. They never last anymore than 3 days and little to no cramping. I have also lost 40 pounds while taking it. And acne is minimal.  BUT. I have noticed high anxiety and depression. Which I've always had but just intensified it."
"This birth control is probably the worst I've taken. I used to be on Microgestin and was switched, and upon taking my first couple pills, suffered horrible nausea. A little nausea is normal for me, but the nausea was so bad I could barely move and was vomiting all day. It also made me break out all over my chin, and I couldn't get it to clear up."
"I've been on this BC for 11 months. After reading the reviews I was SUPER hesitant to take this pill (my 1st birth control) but I decided to try it anyway. I lost weight, my skin is mostly cleared up, and my periods are short and barely there! I have not experienced any depression, anxiety or anything negative. I'm 22, moderately active and I eat relatively healthy, have no health issues, so that may contribute to my positive experience. If you're nervous, try it. It's not the same for everyone, but it may be right for you!"
"This is the worst birth control I've ever taken in my life. I've been bleeding every single day since I started and it's not getting better. I'm bleeding through super plus tampons which I've never had to use in my life. It's so annoying dealing with this I can't even have sex or anything. This medication should be reported what a waste of time and money. I'd rather take my chance at getting pregnant than bleeding for a month."
"I have never left a review on a medication but I need other women to be warned! I was on this two months and it was the WORST two months. I gained 13 pounds, my acne flared up like never before,  I was constantly nauseous (throwing up almost everyday), breakthrough bleeding if you are even 10 minutes late taking the pill but the absolute worst side effect was how heightened my anxiety and depression became. Panic attacks almost every day and they were so severe and worst than they have ever been. Crying LITERALLY all the time about everything. Did not have any desire to leave my house and when I did I was so anxious it wasn't even worth it. Even if you aren't sure how your body will react to this pill, I would NOT chance it."
"Horrible. I've only been on this pill for 2 months & already my face is breaking out in rashes, dark spots all over my body, weight gain, and my cycle is so long & I've been cramping for the past week now. Not only that, my jaws & joints have been in pain for the past week, and don't get me started on the yeast infection. This pill is just horrible. I drink lots of water & eat right so I don't understand but either way, I do NOT recommend this awful pill."
"Worst BC! Not only did I gain weight I had serious anxiety and depression on this medicines"
"I started this birth control about 3 months ago after being on the patch for about 2 months. The first month was fine but them I became extremely emotional, lots of acne, crazy anxiety and depression. I started to notice my insane weight gain  I was 5'4 136lbs and bra size was a 34 B. Now I weigh 148lbs and am a 36 D. I've always had clear skin and been pretty fit and I eat healthy and exercise regularly. Can't wait to get off of this birth control Wednesday."
"This birth control sucks! I've been taking this for several months now and I have gained 40lbs. I have been eating healthy and exercising and I have not lost not one  pound.  This will make your mood swings go insane. Horrible horrible."
"This pill is not worth it, EVER! I have PCOS and was given the pill to help it. I naturally am an anxious person, but the 6 months or so I have been on this spiked the anxiety! I was more emotional a day or 2 before my period than I ever was before I was on the pill! Then, there is the nausea right after taking it which has led me to physically get sick from how it messes up my stomach. No appetite. Then, there is the horrible cramps and clot filled blood which was made WORSE by taking this pill. Nope! Never again! I was on microgestin for years with minimal side effects. This pill has been 6 months of awfulness that literally only makes you feel worse the longer you take it. I cannot wait to finish the next 2 weeks of this pack. I'd rather get ovarian cysts than take these. Heading to my obgyn to switch back, ASAP! Ladies, if you find yourself anxious, stomach sick, PMSing, fatigued, crampy, and heavy bleeding while on this pill, you are not alone. Beware."
"The pharmacy switched me to this pill because they didn't have the other one at the time. The first month was fine but then I started to have all sorts of side effects which at first I didn't associate with the pill: loss of sex drive, vaginal dryness, loss of hair, no periods at all, hot flashes, sleep issues. At first I thought I was going to menopause at 37 years old!!! But I decided to stop. It has been a month and the symptoms have all gone away. I was also having joint pain which I didn't think were related to this and it has gone away too. If a pill can have all these side effects it is definitely not worth the benefits. I would highly recommend to use something else."
"This is gonna to be long but useful. I use to be on lo loestrin and switched to junel 1.5/3.0 about 2.5 years ago. Before that for 6 months I tried June last 1.0/3.0 but it was ineffective. Recently I had an issue where I couldn't get into my gyno for another prescription and they wouldn't send me one till I was seen (next appointment was 2 Months). I went two months without my birth control and my mood was better, my acne disappeared (been struggling with it ever since I was in BC), I'm more awake, and I have less mood swings. Within this past week I just started taking junel 1.5 again and my face broke out within two days all around the mouth area, bumps all over my forehead, oily skin, and I'm extremely irritable. I am 100% stopping this birth control and may not even go back to one. I am disappointed that it took me over 2.5 years to have clear skin again and not realize the cause to my irritability, mood swings, and anxiety."
"I have been taking this medication since October (now it is early January) and since October I have been depressed and have anxiety and panic attacks.  Then the light bulb turned on in my head that this all started since I started this birth control and did not realize it til my mom told me.  I have been off it for a few days and so far so good."
"I've been on this pill for a month now after getting off on depo. I finally feel like me again and have control of my life. It make me feel amazing and I never feel sick from it. When I was on depo I was living a nightmare and now I'm my happy and careful self again. I haven't had any weight gain nor breakthrough bleeding. I'll give another update after 3 months."
"I switched to this pill because the generic of Beyaz was awful. My doctor said I should switch to Junel. I had told her I was having stomach issues and nausea.  About a month into this pill and I have spent every day with stomach pain and nausea so severe that I am not always able to work. I was trying to get away from those symptoms and now they're way worse. Not to mention I am SOOO moody. I cry at the drop of a pin. I've had clinical depression in the past and this is just sending me down a bad road. I'm miserable. (Oh and don't forget the vaginal itchiness.) Long story short. This pill sucks. I miss being on Beyaz (insurance wouldn't cover it anymore)"
"""Look you guys. I started taking this pill about 4 months ago and thought it was great. 1st week I felt fine, however, by the 3rd week I was feeling overwhelmed managing things I had been fine with before. I thought I had too much on my plate and considered counselling. I started with severe depression (which isn't like me at all) and  dark thoughts which scared me. I still associated everything with biting off more than I could chew with working full time and school full time.  I took this pill for almost 4 months and the mood swings were out of control. My husband couldn't recognize me anymore, I didn't recognize myself.
Guys, it's been one week since I've been off this pill and it's like everything I felt is completely gone. It's incredible what a little pill can do to your body. I would NEVER recommend this to anyone. If I could rate this a 0 I would!"""
"Extreme bloating, nausea, weight gain, increase appetite, declining sex drive, breast tenderness, and fatigue. These side effects are concerning. I am considering another brand."
"""I've been taking Junel FE 24 for about a month. I have experienced the nausea, breast tenderness, increase of appetite, weight gain, and a slow declining of my sex drive. I am unsure when the side effects will pass. I am trying to wait to see when it will pass. 
It is starting to draw some concerns. I am strongly considering trying another brand."""
"""I've been taking this pill for almost 3 years now and I'm quite happy with it.  
Overall, the results have been great. My adult acne is gone. I don't suffer heavy periods where I have to sleep with a towel under me at night. I don't have to skip work because my period cramps are so painful. The horrible PMS irritability has subsided for the most part.
As for the side effects:
-  Gained around 10lbs initially (which I've since lost)
- My boobs have gotten slightly bigger (a plus for me!)
- My hair isn't as curly as it used to be. I've heard this can happen during pregnancy so that would make sense that it happens with birth control since it tricks your body into thinking you're pregnant
- Lower sex drive
- No periods - seems a bit unnatural but I'm not complaining
Up to the first year, I did feel a little wonky and emotional at times. I'm not sure if this is the birth control to blame but I do think it's levelled out. Happy to be on this stuff and baby free!"""
"I have been on birth control for 8 years now and in January of 2018 my doctors switched me to Junel Fe 1.5/30. It was effective with my periods being lighter and my acne going away but over the 7 months I was severely depressed for no reason which has never happened to me. I was so moody and stressed all the time! I also lost SOOO much hair. I had tried everything to fix my hair falling out from shampoos to getting my blood tested to see if I had any issues and nothing work! It never occurred to me that it could have been my birth control since all the other ones have never done this to me. Turns out it was. After my family doctor suggested it probably was hormonal issues and it might have been the Junel, I stopped cold turkey. It has been about 5 months since I've stopped and my hair is starting to come back but I will NEVER use Junel again! Whatever was in it messed my hormones up so bad!"
"This birth control worked GREAT! It didn't make me nauseous at all. It stopped my period for 8 months. Unfortunately I'm switching to loyrna to help my acne. But I would highly recommend Taytulla if you're just looking for something to protect against pregnancy."
"I switched off the patch to this pill because I was spotting frequently throughout my cycle. Within the first month I noticed some mild mood swings, second month I couldn't believe I was battling with extremely dark thoughts. The third month my mood swings increased. I couldn't recognize myself anymore. I can only attribute this to this pill. I've discontinued it."
"I've been on Blisolvi for a year and a half. Within one year, I went from 128 to 140 pounds  despite eating a plant based diet and exercising every day! For reference, I typically only gain 1-3 pounds a year at most! It has prevented pregnancy and helped my cramps but after reading these experiences I'm wondering if my  acid reflux and anxiety has been worsened by Blisolvi. I have recently been put on Nexium to control my acid reflux and I'm only 23 years old! It has never been as bad as it has been this past year and a half. I have also had random bouts of depression, major anxiety, and began getting strong and painful headaches this year. The only reason I want to continue Blisolvi is because it has cleared my acne up after struggling with acne since 13 and it has prevented pregnancy but the extreme weight gain is really weighing down my confidence especially because my everyday cardio doesn't seem to lower my weight .."
"I absolutely loveee this birth control. My first birth control was newer and called taytulla. It was awful and made me super depressed as well as worsened my acne. After that I was so nervous to switch birth controls but this one has made my life so much better! My periods are shorter, my anxiety has lessened than before I was even on birth control, and I  don't break out besides on my period. If it doesn't work for others remember it could work for you! I love this so much! ( I also know a lot of people on it who loved it! )"
"I have been on this for three months now. I had headaches the first two weeks, but those went away. Made me break out at first, but cleared up after just over two months. I did notice mood swings which have progressively gotten worse, and I have said and done things that I would not normally say or do. However, it is manageable. My confidence has plummeted and I have gained 12 pounds. My appetite has definitely increased. I am very active and have always been lean and able to eat whatever I want but even with dieting and rigorous exercise,  I can't seem to lose any of the weight I've gained. My experience hasn't been terrible, and most of the adverse side effects are easy to live with (other than my insatiable appetite!). My skin is slightly clearer, bust much larger, and periods are shorter and lighter although PMS and cramping aren't any better."
"""Hi ladies! So recently I got the nerve to finally go and see a GYNO (I'm 21 and a very private person). She ends up diagnosing me with PCOS and started me on Junel FE and said this was her favorite med for PCOS patients. The 1st week or 2 weeks I was good, & then I started bleeding; tomorrow (January 1st) will make it 1 month since I've been bleeding. My cramps can get as bad if not worse than before I was started on BC... I also experienced many lows in my mental health these last few weeks, to the point where I made an appointment with my therapist... & my acne has gotten SO bad again. I was told by many people to contact my dr as it isn't normal to bleed like this. I finally got the courage to get ahold of her & she said she wants to switch me to Sprintec ASAP. 
Of course medications work differently for everyone, so it's all up to you and your dr but I just know it didn't work for me & that seems to be the route a lot of these reviews are taking. I hope this helps someone!"""
"Personally, I like this birth control.  I was taking Tri-Sprintec previously and I always felt very up and down.  Once I got to week 3 of those pills I would feel miserable until I started my new pack.  Not the case with Taytulla.  I am experiencing some light breakthrough bleeding from the switch, but besides that I feel much better in a general sense.  No more period headaches, no more extreme fatigue during my period, no more starving for food in weeks 3 and 4. Others are mentioning weight gain, which wasn't the case for me.  If anything I have lost a little weight because I feel more "level" on this pill.  I'm going to keep taking my sample packs and see how it works out.  Thus far I feel it has worked for me and I'm really happy about the switch."
"I was prescribed this medication to help with my PMDD and because I have very heavy periods. When I first started the medication, I was on the 1st day of my period. It was super light and I was done in 5 days which was a relief. However, I've had horrible side effects. A constant headache, nausea, constipation, and acne. I'm on Week 3 of the package so my period's due next week and I'm having horrible PMDD. Worse than before I started the medication. I'm finishing the pack so I don't mess up my cycle but then I'm done. This pill is awful and not worth it!"
"I have been experiencing breakthrough bleeding every month for the past 4 months, before AND after I get my period. My acne has gotten worse and my cramps are still there. This is by far the worst medication I have ever tried and will be changing soon."
"I strongly advise against taking this birth control. I was on it for 2 months, and I had bleeding while taking them, but during my period week, I had no period. This pill caused fairly severe anxiety and depression for me. I've always been a slightly anxious person, but I've never had serious anxiety or depression until taking this drug. I was constantly anxious about everything in my life and like my life was worthless. It took me some time to realize that the pill was causing these feelings, after I questioned my relationship, my friendships, my life decisions, thinking that one of those factors was causing the anxiety. I'd very strongly advise anyone who either has anxiety, or anyone who gets anxious even a little bit, to not take this pill as it can severely mess up your mental health."
"I was terrified to take this after reading reviews on here, but I actually have had a good experience with this birth control. I didn't really get any side effects, except I've gained 5 pounds, which could definitely be due to my eating habits. My skin has cleared up and my periods aren't as painful or long as before. It has also prevented pregnancy very well, basically it does everything it should. I previously took trinessa and yaz and my body hated them both (cystic acne, bloating, nausea) so Nortrel has been a breath of fresh air."
"This pill is awful. I've been on it for about a year and am switching off now. I've gained almost 40 pounds with no lifestyle or eating changes. It also exacerbates my anxiety and murdered my sex drive. I'm 27, a newlywed and sex has been a huge struggle on this pill. Switching ASAP to something different."
"I used this pill for contraceptive. I used it for 4 months with really no issues at all. I had no period and was not getting pregnant. However, I noticed I gained 15 pounds so quickly once I went away to school and I did not change my diet. Then, at the end of the 4th month the week I went home for winter break, and had extreme anxiety and depression. I have mild anxiety in general but I hardly have panic attacks. In the last 4 days I have been anxious and depressed and have really dark depressed thoughts. I'm in an incredibly healthy relationship with a man I was sure I loved a week ago and now this pill has left me anxious and in a mess about our relationship. I thought it was just him but I began to think about everyone in my life and my despair right now makes me want to push everyone away and I have no interest in the things that brought me so much happiness before. I stopped the pill 2 days ago and I already see a difference"
"I am 39 years old and was put on taytulla by my OB/GYN to regulate my cycle & stop breakthrough bleeding. I have had breakthrough bleeding for years with no answers.  I've been taking taytulla for 2 weeks now and stopped just two days ago because of unbearable lower abdomen cramping. The cramping and bleeding have been so severe that I can't even function with my regular day activities. I'm bleeding so severely with lots and lots of clots. I've never bled this much in my entire life where I'm having to change a pad every hour on the hour.  Tampons can't even be used, I'm having to wear super huge pads for the heavy flow that feel like a diaper. I've developed acne in the past few days on my face.  My mood has me down & depressed & I just can't shake out of it. It's only been two days with me stopping taytulla and I have not noticed any change yet. I hope I start to feel better soon as this can't be life!"
"This was the very first birth control pill I went on. I took it for about a year and it was the worst thing that has ever happened to me. I was so depressed I would lie in the dark all day and cry for no reason. I didn't know why I was feeling this way and as a 19 year old college student at the time I knew something was wrong but just felt so disconnected with the world. The pill didn't make me gain any weight but it made me feel puffy if that makes any sense. My boobs hurt soooo badly taking this pill I had to hold them just walking around. The day after I decided to stop taking this pill I already felt different. I would NEVER recommend this pill to anyone. I'm crying just typing this remembering how terrible it made me feel. I've had no history of anxiety or depression before taking this pill. While the pill gave me amazingly clear skin, it is not nearly enough of a benefit to continue taking the pill."
"This was my first experience on birth control. The only pro to this was having lighter periods. However-- I didn't get a period for 3 of the five months I was taking this medication. I gained about 10+ pounds, became extremely depressed and my skin continued to break out. I just stopped taking it and can't to return to my normal self."
"This pill honestly worked our really well for me even though I was terrified to start taking it after reading all of the reviews. It made my period much lighter although it took about 3 months to notice that change. I will say my period sometimes comes on the second week of my active pills or it will not come at all for some months. This doesn't personally bother me but it is something to consider. I think I lost about 20 pounds from this pill which was great for me.. there's no true evidence it was from the pill but I didn't change my diet or exercise at all. Overall, I've had a very positive experience. Don't let the negative reviews on here scare you.. people are much more likely to write about their bad experiences than their good experiences."
"I've been taking this pill for the past five years and recently decided to get off it for good. On the pill, I noticed a drastic increase in my acne and oily skin (never used to get acne), I had mood swings, and I never had anxiety, until I started taking this pill. My anxiety has gotten worse and worse over the years as well. I wouldn't say my anxiety stems entirely from taking this pill, but I think it contributed greatly. Needless to say, I do NOT recommend this birth control.."
"""If I could give a 0 I would. Asian female, 24 years of age. This is my first time taking this brand. Doctor proscribed these for ovarian cyst, and irregular and painful period. 
The first week; I notice acne on my face, which was unfortunate because my skin is always clear prior to these pills. Second week; tiredness, bloated, and constipated. Third week; I have constant mild abdominal cramp. I started having hot flashes/ waves during the day. I have trouble sleeping solid at night and would get up to pee at least once a night. My throat started hurting. Fourth week, I wake up in a pool of sweat, even though the house is at 67 degrees! I'd pull out clumps of hair in the shower. I'm worried that it's causing me more harm than it's doing good. I'm stopping these today.
WORST PILLS EVER. DO NOT TAKE THESE! Seriously, do yourself a favor and ask for something else."""
"I was put on this birth control after I had my son. All was good and I didn't have a period for almost a year. After that year I'd get my period every 2 months which was ok with me, cause they was light and lasted 3 days. Now almost 5 years later I've noticed I have gained weigh my legs r swollen, I get very bad headaches that last for 2 days and I'm not the same person as I was when I began of taking it. And here lately I've been getting my periods twice a month with bad cramps. The pharmacist had discontinued this birth control and now they have me on Norethindrone. I was in this one for a month a few years ago and my period was on the whole time. Guess I'll be trying it again next month."
"My Obgyn put me on Blisovi to regulate my hormones and periods. But I don't think this medicine is working! I have been spotting (like a period) since taking the first pill. It's so annoying and so embarrassing."
"I will not stop bleeding, going through a super tampon every 2 hours for a week now. I absolutely hate this."
"This makes me sad! I makes my period light. But it makes me feels like I'm sleepy and it makes me feel like I don't want to wake up I try during the day and it made feel sleep all day long just wanted to sleep. I am taking it at 11:30 pm it make me fall a sleep with out dosing off. I just fall asleep about 10 to 20 min after I take it. In the morning I just feel sleep and with no desire to do anything. I can't even go back to sleep but I want to and I feel like that all day just wanting to go to sleep. I feel lazy and just want to eat and eat and eat like I'm starving. I will be letting this pill go.  It is not worth it. I have no desire and I blame this pill! I'm have have done my research. And reading these commitments prove its not just me. Thanks 4 sharing ladies. God Bless!"
"I had been taking Microgestin for 10 years (I didn't have a period, I didn't have cramp), when out of nowhere my pharmacy filled my script with Blisovi. For the first 3 months, I didn't notice anything.. UNTIL I had a period for the first time in 10 years, and I started to get the worst cramps that would last 2 weeks. I also started to get the worst cystic acne on my jaw line, neck, and around my mouth. My gynecologist had to write a new script that specifically spelled out "microgestin brand name only to be filled". Long story short... These two birth controls are NOT the same."
"Nexplanon did its job as far as protecting against pregnancy but it made me bleed none stop for months on end and is what caused my anemia. I'm finally getting it removed. Obviously everyone is different, I know someone who its worked for her but just not for me."
"I was only able to stand Nexplanon for 2 in a half months. One week after implant, I got my period as scheduled. It was a much heavier period than normal and about 3 days longer than normal. The heavy flow stopped after about 6 days, then it was light bleeding for another 3 and then it was just constant spotting. For an entire 2 months I was bleeding. On top of that, the nexplanon made me horribly, emotionally unstable. I was severely depressed, easily set off, and cried at a moments notice. I definitely did not feel like myself. I know doctors recommend to give your body 3-6 months but the depressive thoughts and constant bleeding, personally was not worth it to me. Two days after having it removed, the bleeding stopped and I felt my emotions finally levelling off."
"Nexplanon works wonderful to prevent pregnancy, and did so even when I was breastfeeding.  When my baby was 9 months old that's when I decided to start weaning him from breast milk and start the transition to part formula part whole milk. I had started weaning him and that's when my uncontrollable bleeding started and I was just thinking all the hormones must just be what is triggering it so I continued with the implant. Then when my baby no longer was on formula and was completely switched to whole milk at age one, and I no longer produced milk I still had uncontrollable bleeding. I'm talking 25 days or more out of the month of just bleeding and BAD mood swings along with depression not feeling like myself at all. I knew in my heart something was wrong, yes it works wonderful for preventing pregnancy as I had zero sex drive might be different for others yet it DIDNT work for me due to too many side effects, everyone is different may work for you may not!"
"""I rated Nexplanon 2/10 because as a birth control it did its job, and my periods were less frequent and lighter. 
However, my OBGYN did not warn me about possible side affects with my existing anxiety/depression. The 3 months I had nexplanon was the worst depressive episode I've ever been in. I  actually felt suicidal every day for a month. Forget any sex drive. My moods were completely different than anything I've ever experienced. When I mentioned this to a friend, she told me that her roommate had the same issues right after getting nexplanon and I should get it out immediately. I am now on the pill (Tri-Lo-Marzia) and slowly recovering after a horrific 3 months.
I paid $100 out of pocket and ended up having to get this thing taken out, and now I have a nasty scar on my arm."""
"I have been using Nexplanon for about three years now.  It has been one of the best birth control I've use this far. Implantation was quick and easy. Bruising of the arm last about three days. Experience mood swings but they subside as time went by. No weight gain or breaking out of the face like I have experience with other birth-controls. My periods got shorter but  always came the same time every month. Got the implant removed March 7, 2019. I am currently six weeks pregnant. Didn't expect for it to happen so soon after removal but my family and I are so excited."
"""I've had Nexplanon for a little over 4 years and I never had a period, no spotting, nothing since I've had it.  I loved having no periods and not having to worry about taking pills and it does work! Lol you definitely won't get pregnant. BUT man I have had some mood swings and had depression and would just cry, sex drive was low and I just didn't want to be touched. I've had it out for about 3 months and it sucks dealing with my period now but it's worth it because I'm back to myself. I feel great now, but having the periods does suck 
I wouldn't get it again. I'm done with it."""
"I have had nexplanon for around 3 months now. My experience has been fairly positive. I bled for the first 9-10 days which was already mentioned to me at my appointment. I had a bit of bruising around my arm but apart from these two things. I can't fault it. I rarely have any side effects from any type of medication."
"Worst thing I ever did to my body. I gained 20 pounds, I got ovarian cysts, my skin went from being clear to breaking out constantly, and my periods have been insanely irregular and heavy. Save yourself the trouble and don't get this horrible medicine."
"I've had Nexplanon  for one month and I have not experienced anything terrible. I got on this method after having a pregnancy scare with missing pills. I had it inserted during the middle of my birth control pill pack and I have not received a period or spotting to this day. Side effect wise, I have had headaches, acne, and higher irritability at small things, but I haven't had any of the bleeding side effects. Hopefully things stay this way, as it is 99.95% effective against pregnancy and those odds are very likeable."
"Horrible experience ever! I got nexplanon last September, first 3 months were just ok, I mean I got some headaches, changes of mood, body aches and got my period every month only for 5 or 7 days that was ok, on January I got for the first time in my life ( I'm 31 yo) a YEAST infection that would NOT go away and will come back right after every treatment ( during two months) I was miserable!  also I got for the first time in my life two panic attacks I went to ER I felt really sick! Depressed, my heart beat would go up constantly, pain in the arm, insomnia, pain in my breast pain everywhere! I did not now what was going on with me, I'm a healthy person, well I found this place I read most of the reviews and found that most people experience most of my symptoms. Well I decide to get removed on March 29 it has been two weeks without it and I feel great! No more Yeast Infections and all the other symptoms went away! I feel great and happy and I would NOT recommend this BC to anyone!"
"At first I loved Nexplanon and had very little issues with the implant. Although, I have now had it for about 2 years and I notice that I have crazy mood swings, my periods are brutal, and I have never had acne until now. I am very good about keeping my skin clear and using good products and no matter how much I keep up with it these crazy cystic bumps keep popping up and it is very painful.  The implant was very good for a short period of time but I am planning on getting it removed dude to the increasing side effects I am noticing."
"I had my Nexplanon placed April 2017 and started dealing with pretty severe stomach pain shortly after. I have had GI issues throughout my life but not this pain.  I had recently taken antibiotics so thought that was the cause. It's been 2 years and my stomach is still terrible. I've lost a ton of weight and really struggle to keep any form of fat on me due to my stomach I just can barely eat. It was so expensive to put in (planned parenthood  massively misquoted me) that I don't want to remove it too soon especially since I'm not directly sure it's the cause. On the upside I don't get periods basically ever, I don't get PMS or mood swings like I used to, my boobs never hurt, and emotionally I do fine on it but I feel it may have amped up my anxiety a bit. Once it's out I will absolutely not put another in. I will likely take it out after 3 years instead of 4."
"If you have an irregular period, don't get this! I got the 3 year plan and it's only been 2 years, but I feel like I've been bleeding/spotting for waaaaay too long! As far as not getting pregnant A+! But hey, its probably because my boyfriend doesn't want to do it if I'm bleedings."
"""*DO NOT TRY THIS PRODUCT*!!!!!!!
This is my first time, trying nexplanon. Its been TWO weeks and I am actually having it removed TODAY!! All the reviews I've read are accurate and the side effects are immediate, I have anxiety, anger, depression, empty feeling, want to be secluded and that's just mental. Physically dizzy, nauseous, diarrhea, itching face, the area of insertion itches something wicked, like I'm rejecting it... sweating, chills, insomnia. Please don't take the chance without doing your homework first and 99.99%  of everyone asked that have and used this thing hated it and or bled for MANY months at a time :("""
"UPDATE from anonymous march 20th post: Its been 1 week since my removal  of Nexplanon & I feel like the happiest person on earth! I even had more side effects right before removal: my weight gain of 10lbs, became 15lbs! It also made my digestive system extremely bad! It took 3-4 days for my food to digest! It was causing me to be bloated every single day for 2 weeks straight just before removal. It was also weird that it took away my depression for a whole year of having this but just before removal, my depression came back twice as hard. I also had NO SEX DRIVE for a whole year! I didn't want my bf touching me ever! It was driving both of us crazy! Now everything is back to normal! I lost about 5lbs so far & I feel like I'm myself again. Now I can live a happy life! I'm never trying this again!"
"I was put on this birth control at 14 and got it removed at 18. This implant ruined my life. It caused me to have horrible irregular bleeding, it ruined my sex drive, it stunted my breast growth, and it caused horrible cystic acne with mood swings so bad I was almost diagnosed BIPOLAR. I have been off this implant for over a year and my estrogen levels are so low and are unable to regulate themselves so I have to take the pill to get my estrogen back to normal. I'm currently unable to get pregnant despite the claim of being able to get pregnant within a week of removing the implant. I do not recommend this to ANYONE!! I also have chronic UTIs due to the thin lining of my urethra because of the devastating impact on my estrogen this implant has caused. I wish I had known about these awful side effects and I'm praying that it has not ruined my fertility for life."
"I got nexplanon when I was 14. My gynecologist said that there were no side effects. After implant, everything was fine then my period stopped & didn't come back for 3-4 months. Once it came back it didn't stop for 2.5 yrs. After bleeding for a month I went to my doctor's office to find out that she moved to Ohio. I went through manic episodes & anxiety. Developed emotional problems. After about a year I realized the implant broke in my arm. I didn't know that was bad. I ended up gaining 80 pounds within a year & a half. I found a new doctor who removed the implant & confirmed it had broken & the amount of hormones released from the implant when it broke, caused extreme side effects on my body. I had the implant out at 17. I'm now 21 and ever since I got the implant I suffer from emotional & medical issues that I believe derived from nexplanon. I have gallbladder issues, secondary Amenorrhea, headaches. Please discuss all risks with your provider . Don't let them tell you that there are no side effects."
"At the time of insertion (Dec 2017) I had a boyfriend who refused to use condoms and didn't wanna pull out. I decided to get nexplanon so that we could have unprotected sex without me getting pregnant. The first three months consisted of non-stop bleeding, but then it eased and I got my period every two months for two weeks. Eventually, I got rid of the crappy boyfriend but kept the nexplanon just in case. Somewhere near summertime (like 8 months after insertion) I began to spot again. This lasted about two months straight with a week in between of no bleeding. I am tired of the spotting, thick and smelly discharge in between bleeding, and the horrible acne. I have never suffered from acne before and now have a bunch of scars all over my face. Finally, be sure your man isn't a total idiot and respects you and values, and what you want sexually. Not worth going through all this rubbish just to have him complain that I bled on him. Never again. I'm glad to end this chapter of my life."
"I have been using the nexplanon implant for 8 years. I'm on my 3rd implant. I have been experiencing more and more mental health issues as time went on.  It's to the point where my anxiety and depression are almost crippling.  I experienced some mental health issues before, but they have gotten worse since I got my first implant in 2011, but until now I had no idea that my worsening anxiety could be because of my implant.  I intend to have have it removed in the next 3 days.  Also, I have a significant issue with spotting between periods to the point where I have had my period lasting for up to 6 weeks on occasion."
"I would not ever recommend this birth control to anyone. It was a life saver the first year but since this second year I've had issue after issue. I have  horrible anxiety 24/7. When I'm not panicking I'm crying from crazy amounts of depression. Not to include the physical changes its done to my body.  I'm constantly tired and weak. I spend almost my entire day in bed.  When I normally would be up doing yoga or playing with my child.  I have horrible chest pains along with palpitations that only makes my anxiety worse.  Plus horrible migraines and awkwardly I get muscle spasms all over my body probably from stress.  Please think twice before you get this.  It will change your life."
"""I feel like I'm a different person on nexplanon
I feel angry and have been snapping on people a lot 
I get annoyed so easily and just want to be alone all the time 
Definitely want to get it out
I've only had it in for a month"""
"At first I loved the nexplanon. But after having it in for about 4 months my periods got longer and the time between them got shorter. I currently have it for a month straight and only get a week or two break before having it for a month again. There has even been a few times where I have had spotting in the week or two before having it for a month. My mood swings are really bad. When having my period my cramps are really bad and the bleeding is heavy. It gets a 10/10 for stopping pregnancy."
"I DID NOT enjoy my Nexplanon. I did get a D & C (not too long) before getting it inserted (the first time), however, I notice many have similar complaints. I give it a "2" as I did not get pregnant, but that is as I was on my period the whole time I had it, about 7 months. Other major things is that I always had migraine headaches and definite NOTICEABLE weight gain. I was in the military at the time & they weighed us regularly. This BC was a major contributor to my past weight gain. I also found myself extremely moody/ depressed. *The device, itself, CAME OUT of my arm and I had to get another inserted.*  But then I could not wait to get it out! I, now, have been on the "Skyla" for a year and I love it."
"""11:05pm. I'm scrolling through this thread in tears. Depressed .
 Confused .
 I'm 6 months with this nexplanon implant and it was the worst mistake of my life next to dropping out of college. I had been bleeding every 3 weeks   And I would have a break about 2 days . My flows would be as heavy as my heart would feel. This was going on for 5 months . I can't stop eating .  I'm always sad . I got acne on my cheeks and my neck.  I've gained weight (20 pounds) . I resent men , my gynecologist, and myself for getting this . My doctor has advised me to stick it all out , and that I is what I am doing. But during the after hours , I find myself browsing YouTube , trying to find an instructive video on how to take this lord forsaken device out of my arm because I've had enough . Truthfully Everyone is different . My friends experience was the complete opposite .  But this was not for me ."""
"I finally got this after months of debating and reading reviews. I noticed headaches right away. 7 months later my headaches are extreme, as are my mood swings, no real sex drive, I've gained at least 10lbs. I've always been a very happy person and good natured person. Now on this I've never been so angry and sad. One awesome thing was my period stopped almost immediately, luckily I didn't get the constant bleeding like so many others. I've been so exhausted and hungry all the time. Lightheaded, dizzy, and headaches are so bad I was ready to take it out myself.  I finally got it out today and I could never recommend. Hopefully I will feel better soon."
"Update, this nexplanon  birth control has been the best one I've used thus far. My arm had little to no bruising for a few days, and my scar is very unnoticeable. Yes I was a moody for the first 2 weeks, and felt easily light headed/nauseated for about a month. I also had headaches, but again, this is normal for me during a birth control transition. No weight gain really, it's diminished my appetite if anything, but there's been no weight loss or weight gain. I never get bloated on this birth control, and I immediately stopped having periods. This is my third form of birth control after the IUD skyla failed, and the combo pill was raising my blood pressure. Overall a great choice, especially for someone very busy with life and isn't ready for kids. 10/10 recommend for anyone!"
"I have been on Nexplanon for 5 months and have already scheduled a removal. I have been bleeding non-stop for 3 months; I am completely miserable/moody/ angry all the time; I have gained weight that is impossible to lose. Most recently, I began experiencing extreme pain followed by numbness in my calf and foot. I had to go to the hospital and have multiple tests done. All the test came back clear and all of the doctors concluded that this pain/numbness was a side effect of the nexplanon. Do yourself a favor, and never get Nexplanon implanted."
"I have had the  nexplanon implant 3 times now. The first was fine ran to 3 years, the 2nd so so, felt a bit unwell and tired and my boobs went huge and sore! Then the 3rd time OH DEAR!! Spots ( NEVER been a spotty person ) my body aches all over like I'm 60 in a 27 year old body, my period is all over, craving sweet stuff, feeling sick, headaches, crying and hairy! Getting hairy all over. I have had this is 9 months now and it's all getting worse. I literally feel like I am going to die. Sounds dramatic but I do. My body feels so weak. Had my bloods done and there all fine. Had problems with my breathing and my lungs are clear etc. It has got to be the implant. Feel so poorly now with it. Having it out today... got all the pregnancy symptoms but I'm not getting anything out of it. So miserable x"
"""Cons : slight inflammation and itching around implant spot as well with rash light look when itches but goes away within a day. First week I was terribly sick and considered getting it out immediately but didn't have to. Since then the side effect subsided and I felt back to normal.
Pros : Works completely as a birth control.
Other effects: NO menstruation to low menstruation frequency (none for me for the last 1.5 years.) It is a tad dysphoric due to the unnatural consistency with no mensuration. It is odd and makes me worry for my fertility due to not having any menstruation, I'll be getting off this form of birth control due to this concern and I'll review on here again after that to see what happens if there is an effect if you don't have a period for over a year not due to your own body's natural inability."""
"10/10 not getting pregnant and I didn't have an issue with bleeding HOWEVER... my face blew up of painful acne never had an acne issue but since getting the implant I'm too embarrassed to even talk to people at work. Constantly depressed never want to get out. Since taking out the implant about 2 1/2 days I've never felt happier (yes in such little time) Maybe because I got this damn thing out!! I didn't look at reviews before I got the implant & I wish I would of since I relate to all of these reviews."
"I had the nexplanon implant inserted in August 2016, all seemed fine at first but I have suffered with awful mood swings and heightened anxiety for the past 3 years, as well as a real low sex drive. My periods were irregular and I would sometimes bleed for 2-3 weeks. It expired in January so I had it removed and a new one put in, it honestly sent me crazy. I had constant headaches and neck pain and felt so low. I looked online and read other reviews and tied up my symptoms  to the nexplanon and decided the get it removed, it was quite hard getting an appointment straight away so had to wait a week or so. I feel so much better since it has been taken out, no crippling headaches, nausea or crazy anxiety."
"I've had the worst experience ever. Bleeding every second week and not just spotting but real flow. Had it for just over a year but bled for over 6 months. Lost so much weight I hate myself, I went from 55kg to 44.7 kg. Moody you name it. I don't recommend it to anyone. Had to pay to have it removed because government clinics were playing duck and dive while I'm slowly dying."
"I have been on Nexplanon for 6 months and it is the best form of birth control I've ever been on. Insertion was painless,  I have the tiniest little scar. The first 1-2 months I experienced some bleeding and spotting, but since then I‘ve only had 1 period with relatively light bleeding. I‘m pretty sexually active and haven't had any complications with that. I was diagnosed with depression while on it but I doubt there is a correlation. I live a very active life style and this has no inhibited me in anyway."
"I had Nexplanon for the whole 3 years at first I loved it no periods but that was only the first year by the 2 I noticed I have mood swings and a very short fuse what I hated the worst was I was loosing weight over the years I was a 107 before I started over time a week for getting it taken out I was 87 pounds after the 1st year I started bleeding all the time I absolutely hate nexplanon but I can say it worked great on not getting me pregnant but I did have 2 false pregnancies I wouldn't prefer this for anyone. I'm on the pill now and gaining my weight back"
"After reading these reviews, I called my once vibrant daughter who was a college cheerleader, now a person who is depressed, anxious, had quit college because she could barely manage to get out of bed daily. Needless to say after her speaking with her ob office they removed same day (within 3 hrs). Not sure how long it takes to get this out of her system but her Nexplanon was in for almost the total of 3 years, these symptoms started around 2 years for her she lost so much weight looks anorexic. She had lots of work up by the Dr her up for stomach issues. Nothing. This product needs to be taken off the market. "
"So I decided to try birth control for the first time & I'm 34 lol. I got Nexplanon in November 2017. The positive thing this birth control did for me was take away my depression & of course not get pregnant. The negatives or side effects of this on me is crazy! My boobs are swollen & sore 24/7. My period is 3 weeks straight at a time with sometimes a week break or a 1-2 day break! And it's still happening til this day. I wanted it removed when I was only 6 months in because I was so tired of having my period. The nurse told me to wait a little longer so I told myself I'll wait til I make 1 year. I also gained 10lbs & I'm a very active person who jogs everyday & all of a sudden I'm gaining weight with no changes on how I eat! I can't stand it! It's now way past a year & I'm finally having it removed next week. I can't wait for my body to get back to normal! At this point, I rather deal with my stomach cramps & deal with my period for only 5 days with a 3 week break!!!"
"I have been using Nexplanon for a year and I do not have my period since then I have gained weight around 30 pounds, and I have anxiety all the time."
"I've had Nexplanon for almost 2 years now and I absolutely love it, it stopped my periods. I had an occasional period maybe every 8 months. It is so nice to not have to think about my birth control and know that it is one of the most effective. I had some bruising and scaring when I first got the implant but now you would never be able to tell. I don't have any mood changes or sex drive changes. Honestly it's the best birth control I've ever been on."
"This Nexplanon birth control not only made me bleed for more than 2 months, I experienced extreme blood clotting during my menstrual equivalent to post childbirth. After becoming severely anemic and complaining to my OBGYN she agreed to take it out. It's been 3 months post removal and now I finally have a normal Menstrual Cycle."
"Not all bodies are alike, but if you have suffered with anxiety/depression in the past I don't recommend Nexlplanon. I started out with it September 2017 and loved it at first. As time went on it seems my anxiety and depression increased and saw I a therapist. Then there was the weight gain. I started to feel bloated and pregnant ALL the time. Don't let people tell you birth control and weight gain don't correlate. My scale increased from 150lbs to 165 then 170 and then 177lbs (I am 5'9") despite all the dieting and exercise. I admit I did like that my butt got Kardashian huge but my stomach and face were so bloated I was always uncomfortable and hated how I looked. This method of birth control does work effectively, I just don't think it was right for me. I got mine out yesterday and I already feel more myself than I have in 2 and a half years and I am de bloating already. Just listen to your body ladies!! And we aren't all crazy, sometimes it's the hormones."
"""10/10 for not getting pregnant. 3/10 for hormonal issue 
I got Nexplanon in 2016 and insertion was normal I didn't even bleed I had less period and manageable enough mood swings.
When I had sex I have no period, and as soon as I stop being sexual active I would get them.
I've had dark thoughts which I'm able to control but as two years goes by my mood swings are crazy. I feel anger inside me and things became dark. I gained tummy weight and some times I would feel like I'm depressed or high anxiety in stressful situations. I'm wanting to take it out but  I don't want to be pregnant again. I'm seeing how long I can hold out."""
"DO NOT GET NEXPLANON. I've been bleeding for 4 months at a stretch and I have been so depressed since I got this. I wake up everyday with a heavy heart and a mind and I feel horrible all the time about my body and skin and my life. I hate this thing"
"So I got this on October 22. I AM 74 KG and 5'6. I get lots of symptoms, so I think it works. When I had my period on November, it went for a month. First few days were medium flow then just light for the rest of that month. I've had plenty of unprotected sex and took a test or two and negative. Then on December, it was light period for 4-5 days then just spotted for a bit. Then my next period came in February for 4 days it was light. I took a test on January twice (on different days) to be sure I wasn't pregnant. Now its March, I am feeling the same but not much spotting. I feel sad and angry a lot on some days. I can be very moody and very hungry. Sometimes I feel nauseous but not so bad, just a tad bit nauseous. It just scares me sometimes as I confuse nexplanon symptoms to pregnancy symptoms."
"The first 3 months were fine except for constant hunger which comes with weight gain obviously.  Around the 3 month mark I started to bleed which didn't worry me because they say that you can spot for a few month however I've been bleeding for 5 months fluctuating from spotting to sometimes 5 ultra tampons a day as soon as I think the bleeding is slowing it comes back extremely heavy, cramps, headaches, DEPRESSION, 12 pound weight gain, nooo sex drive at all which has taken a toll on my relationship I have no desire to have sex and I mean at all!! I will be definitely taking it out asssap!"
"""I've had Nexplanon for little over a year and honestly, it's been the most positive experience for me, I hardly ever have periods and if I do, they are very light. I never have to use anything more than a liner which is awesome. I don't notice any weird side effects, and I usually forget it's there.
I did feel it kind of poke a bit for the first few weeks, but that went away. The insertion was super easy and fast, as well as the healing. I don't know of other people who have this birth control personally, but I'm always quick to share my positive experience. I can't take the pill because I have migraines with aura, so was rather limited in my options. So glad I tried this!"""
"I've only had nexplanon in for about three months but my experience is horrible, this thing has literally made me crazy, my moods swings are horrible. I get so mad and it usually is something so small and my blood boils. I cry so often and I used to never cry. Not to mention I've been bleeding for about a month now. It's a bit more than spotting and is so annoying. I don't have a whole lot of cramps, I used to have a skyla IUD and got rid of it because of all the cramping I got and the heavy periods. I'd honestly rather have all the pain than be depressed and moody all the time. Least I'm not pregnant."
"I have had Nexplanon for 6 month and during that time my period just never stopped. I bleed everyday and it's frustrating that all my panties are ruined because of it. Would never recommend this to anyone sane, only if you are extremely lucky, will destroy your bed sheet, panties, trousers etc when you make the mistake of thinking the bleeding stopped for a while. I'm only keeping it since I f**king paid money for this and condoms give me UTI."
"Let me tell you, getting Nexplanon is hands down the worst and dumbest thing I have ever put myself through. I absolutely HATE nexplanon and I've had it for about 9 months and all I do is bleed. It gets so heavy that I can't live a normal life and have a constant fear of bleeding through onto my clothes. I would not recommend Nexplanon to anyone."
"""10/10 on not getting pregnant!
However I'm on my last year and these 3 years on Nexplanon have been bad with side effects. At first all rosey barely any periods, nothing to remember but started getting severe mood swings and gradually gaining weight. Now I'm on my last year and I am a total hormonal mess who cries constantly, has the emotional balance of a 2 year old and is up 3/almost 4 dress sizes. However if the next thing I try doesn't work I'd go through this just to not remember a pill soo.."""
"I have had the nexplanon implant in for a little over a month now, and it instantly stopped my period and I have no  spotting whatsoever. I haven't noticed any weight gain, and nothing's been unbearable so far. The first two weeks I was a bit over emotional, and I noticed I get more light headed, nauseated, or headaches than I'd like. This is usually how my body reacts to every form of birth control I've tried for a month or two though while I settle in. I also noticed strange lower back pain. I switched to this birth control because my IUD failed, and estrogen (combo pills) was no longer something my doctor seemed very safe for me."
"As far as not getting pregnant 10/10. My side effects from Nexplanon have been bad throughout  so that gets a 1/10. The low rating is for the side effects. They have been driving me crazy. When I first started I didn't stop bleeding for three months. It was more than "spotting," which they warn may happen. I put on 10-15 pounds and had bad mood swings. I am now about two years in of my three years. Also I am on my third period in about 5 weeks. This has made my periods worse. I have heavier blood flow and cramps. With time my periods are more frequent and irregular. I feel like I am a menstruation machine. Will never use this type of birth control again when it is time to switch. Because the side effects were so bad starting I am scared to switch to a new birth control and perhaps bleed again for three months straight. I had birth control pills I took ten years ago that ended up being recalled. Those recalled pills were better than this. The crazy mood swings but short periods was better than this."
"When I first got it, I got the average side effects nothing terrible. I fell in love with the implant, because it was doing it's job like it promised. Everything was great the first year but started going down hill at the begging of the second year. I got really depressed, and lost interest in everything I did before. I didn't want to workout no more, I had mood swings, and my sex drive was at zero. I also felt bloated, had terrible headaches, and was spotting all the time. Recently, my depression has gotten worse and I have been crying a lot about everything. My relationship has also been a little disconnected. I feel like a completely different person compared to when I didn't have it. Currently I am trying to schedule an appointment to get the nexoplanon removed. I don't recommend it because of the side effects I had. Otherwise, it is very reliable and does keep its promise on almost being 100% effective."
"I have had about 3 implants in my life. Im Currently on my 3rd. I was on the pill before I had my now 7 year old. After she was born I had my first implant. No issues I remember. Had my second implant after the first 3 years had finished. No issues. Had the 2nd  removed as I was trying to have a baby. Fell pregnant and had my 2nd baby. Now I'm on my 3rd implant and I'm on my last year on it. But, and this is a  big but, this time I've had nothing but mood swings, depression, weight gain, spots, and heavier and longer periods. It's been vile. I'm looking into getting it out. I will say I've never fell pregnant with any implant which is great but the side effects aren't too much now. To the point I thought I had some kind of Illness! I'm kinda of glad I'm not alone in this but all of us women who have had these side effects, it's truely awful which I'm sure you'd agree."
"Literally almost crying as I write this - I only had Nexplanon birth control in for 2 months. My second week, I noticed severe mood swings but thought I had to “get used to it”. For the past two months, I have flown between crying for 2 1/2 hours because “my dog loves me so much” & almost going across a desk at my kids principal, wanting to pop their heads off their shoulders. This isn't me. I have always been an upbeat, positive person but this birth control made me someone I'm not. And of course I haven't stopped spotting. My husband said this birth control definitely works - I won't even let him touch me so obviously can't get pregnant. I had it removed two hours ago. Doctor says scar tissue had already formed around it & had to cut it out - in only two months! I've tried all forms of birth control but I will never, ever use or recommend this one to anyone."
"I have developed a lot of problems and I have many things going on with me that seem to be other people's symptoms when taking nexplanon. I have depression, anxiety, mood swings, long periods, sensitivity in area, abdominal pain, acne, restlessness and a huge appetite. I eat until I am extremely full. I stress eat and I eat about five times a day. I wish that I would have known how dangerous medical technology is. Yes some things are absolutely necessary like surgery. But with my recent discoveries I have learned that medicine always was side effects. And  you have to balance the risk of side effects with what benefits you get it ie. is it worth the risk? I'm on medications and go to therapist every week. I constantly wonder if I took out the implant if I would get better in some way. I hope some day medications and medical technology will be more regulated. I honestly can't wait until my 3 years is up because then I can confidently take it out and ask to be put on birth control pills instead. Thank you for reading. I'll come back to republish when removed."
"I've had Nexplanon for 8 months now and it's been fine. I don't get periods anymore, and that's it. It's better than the pill as I never have to remember to take it."
"I spotted for a good 3 weeks after I got nexplanon back in November 2018. I have a 6 month old and a 2 year old at home that is why my OBGYN suggested this. Something that I would not need to remember to take daily like the pill. Unfortunately, I read the side effects. I brushed it off thinking I might not get affected as much as others did. But I have had the worst anxiety attacks over nothing! Even reading these reviews is starting to make me feel very anxious. It has definitely affected my relationship with my husband. He considering to get a vasectomy just to get me out of this! Please do not use this!!! The cons outnumber the pros!!!!"
"""I had this inserted a couple of months ago, because I figured it was an easy 3 year thing that I didn't have to remember to take daily. 
I have been reading all of the comments below and I am having ALL of these symptoms and it SUCKS. Immediate horrible cramps, eventually no period (which makes me anxious not having one), I can't STOP eating, I have gained 11 pounds so far since only taking inserting it 2 months ago. I always feel down, unmotivated, wanting to stay in bed, and I have NEVER been this person. 
 My skin on my chin and around my mouth is ALWAYS dry, burning and has zits, I am person that hasn't had any acne issues in my 36 years of living. Bottom line, do NOT get this birth control."""
"I wouldn't recommend this birth control to any woman. This bc made me very depressed so that I was in such a dark place. A lot of my friends experienced the same thing . As soon as I got it removed I felt completely better."
"Nexplanon worked great for severe cramping, I didn't get a period for the three years I was on it. However, I had moderate acne that was very persistent no matter what I used on my skin. It wasn't unbearable, but I never left the house without makeup. It also made me severely depressed and have crazy mood swings. I guess I'm very sensitive to hormones. I would never recommend this birth control to anyone because of the side effects. Mood swings were the worst."
"I got my first implant when I was 17. The first 3 years were great. I never had another period, no other side effects. I got it replaced when I was 20, about a year ago now. About 8 months into the new implant I transformed into a completely different person. EXTREME anxiety, zero motivation to do ANYTHING, and CRAZY emotional all the time. I have been picking fights with my husband constantly, as I am extremely irritable and angry all the time too. Which makes me cry. (I have never been an emotional person.) I will snap for no reason and can feel the anger inside me to where I could probably punch a puppy and feel no remorse. I can't focus, I am constantly fatigued and sad. I skip my classes just because I can't manage to pull myself out of bed. I called my doctor today, demanding they take it out today or else I would cut it out myself (yes its that bad, I swear I feel like I'm losing my mind) I am hoping after it's removed that maybe I'll start to feel like a normal person again."
"Since taking this pill, I have had really dark thoughts.  Be really careful if you notice any problems please talk to someone."
"At first I was terrified of this thing in my arm. I wanted to get it to help with periods and cramps but didn't want to go through the pain. It didn't hurt at all when I got it! I had a scare with sex the next day after getting it so I was scared until I got my period. I finally got it and I knew it was effective. It also helped my cramps a lot which is a blessing. I would recommend this to anyone! Simple to use because you don't have to do anything. Also worry free!"
"I wish I would have never gotten this birth control implant. I got it in April 2018, so almost a year ago. My first two months I felt like I was pregnant. Bloated, fatigue, moody, horrible acne which I didn't have before the implant. I had normal periods and then month three my period went away. l loved the implant 4-6 months into it. Then I started noticing I am extremely prone to vaginal infections now. I've had vaginitis 4 times. I have extreme anxiety and depression. I cannot get myself out of bed most days and have no interest in things I enjoyed before I got the implant. I used to workout 5 days a week and I can't make myself go anymore. I cry a lot for no reason and worry about things other people wouldn't. I  had to seek help from a therapist. I have an appointment to get the implant removed. I will not recommend this birth control to anyone! Please read reviews before a year of your life has been altered like mine. It's not worth it."
"As far as effectiveness. 10/10 SATISFIED. But other than that.. I hate it. When I was 12, my step mother had me get one when I started my period. Never once gained weight from it. This is my second one so far. I had in total for about 6 years. The first one had stopped my periods, which i loved. I got it removed when I was 16, and had to get a new one in, it all went down hill from there. I have scar tissue, my arm is weak, non- stop bleeding. 3% sex drive lol, if that. I can cry over anything, which is totally not me. I hate this thing in my arm and the thought of getting it removed again scares me. But I am going through with it. Wish me luck!!! Good luck to you out there. It is either a hit or miss."
"If you are looking for an effective birth control. This is it, however the side effects are horrendous. I got Nexplanon in Oct 2018, since getting it I have been very depressed. It has gotten to the point where I have no desire to get out of the bed and go to work or school. On my off days I'd rather just stay in my bed and sleep. I have also gained 25 lbs since getting this birth control. My sex drive has gone done and has put a strain on my relationship due to my mood swings, low sex drive and having no desire to do anything at all. I'm looking to take this garbage out ASAP!!! I cannot take it anymore."
"In a week I will complete 2 years with nexplanon. I have to say I thought I was delusional with the side effects I have had. I got my implant March 11 2017. In the beginning I was spotting for a month and after I barely got periods and if I didn't I'd get your usual 5-7 day bleeding very average till I reached a year and two months.  I started bleeding for 3-4 weeks at a time with days in between. The cramps are painful. My periods are extremely heavy throughout the whole time. In addition I have gained over 25 pounds since I got it inserted. My anxiety has been intense but I not once thought it would be my implant. Now, reading these reviews I see I'm not alone. I am calling my gyn ASAP to get this HORRIBLE thing out of my body ! Initially I was not going to comment but these reviews helped me to learn I needed a second, third, & fourth person to tell me they felt what I have been feeling and now  I hope I can do the same for someone else. I DO NOT RECOMMEND EVER !"
"I have been on this birth control for about two years now and I have had a horrible experience on it . I started off with loosing my period and I was okay with that because I hated getting it . Then slowly my face started to break out uncontrollably, I mean after one pimple heals a next would begin to form . After this I noticed my weigh gain and no matter what I did I gained about 20-30 pounds !!! Not to mention that my mood shifts and I can almost feel it . One minute I feel amazing the next I feel super depressed . I don't recommend this birth control to anyone !!! I'm getting this removed this week !!"
"Nexplanon has worked very great for me within the time I've used it! The only problem I've run into is irregular bleeding, I ran into this problem recently and the bleeding came with no cramps except for the first few days but the cramps are completely tolerable. If the bleeding becomes something intolerable to you as it can get annoying you can always tell your doctor about this and they can put you on some hormone medication to help lessen the irregular bleeding. Nexplanon has obviously worked differently for everyone but it is 100% effective if you aren't planning to have kids anytime soon. Good luck!"
"This birth control is horrible. I had this inserted end of July 2018. For about a month or so I started getting really painful UTI's after having sex once. After I got rid of the UTI's I started bleeding non stop some days I spotted other days it was horrible. In November of 2018 I started getting really bad headaches and extreme anxiety (it could've been the weed too) and on top of that I've been depressed and always upset it seems. I'm looking to get it removed asap."
"I tried this birth control and I only liked it because I didn't have to take the pill however, I struggled SOOOOO much with my weight I workout religiously and eat incredibly healthy (Under 1,100 calories a day) I always eat high protein low carb and I could not maintain my weight I lost 15 pounds while I was on it but I had to go to extreme lengths (eating under 500 cals a day and working out more) I then gained all of it back and more, I gained about 25-30 pounds on nexplanon with no changes to my diet or workout regimen... I was depressed and had anxiety.. I absolutely hated myself because of my weight.. I would not recommend if you struggle with body image because after talking to my doctor and numerous people it DOES make you gain around 20-30 pounds.. Maybe not everyone but my doctor said almost all of his patients experienced this.."
"I would NOT recommend this birth control to anyone. Yes it kept me from getting pregnant. But it also caused me to gain around 100 lbs in 3 years! None of my doctors warned me about this and it makes me really angry how many women are being put on this method of birth control without being told it can make you gain weight like crazy. When I was on it I was working out daily and dieting constantly but nothing worked and I still gained weight. I have also had friends and siblings get on Nexplanon and had it completely change the way their body looks, even if they only had it for a month or two. I really wish someone had warned me about this before I got it because I deeply regret having it for three years."
"Nexplanon was a terrible experience for me. I have always struggled with extremely painful periods. My doctor told me that she believes I may have the condition endometriosis, but wanted to put me on birth control first to see if it helped. First, as soon as I got this inserted, my face, back, arms and chest broke out. I was covered in hundred of pimples, whiteheads, and blackheads. I also suffered from discolortion of the skin and depression. I give it two stars because it did eventually take away my periods and I only experienced spotting every few months. This made me horribly depressed. I also lost 15 pounds when I had it in. I'm not sure if this is due to the Nexplanon, but I definitely felt less hungry and gained the weight back as soon as I got it removed. I had it in for a total of six months."
"""After 4 months on Nexplanon my vagina felt like it was always on fire, this started slowly with some discomfort at first to feeling like my vagina was made out of sand and tissue paper. This started in month 2-3, constant burning started month 4 and went on for 3 weeks. Sex was impossible (I had sex once, had to ice my vagina afterward). My urethra was always also in serious pain but I did not have a UTI.
I went to my gyno and urologist; urologist said everything was in my head, the gyno told me it was not my implant and that I had BV. She did a pelvic exam and the insertion of the speculum hurt so much that I started to cry in the office; it felt like she shoved a hot curling iron up my vagina. She prescribed me antibiotics that caused nausea followed by anti-fungal meds to prevent YI. No improvement. 
I got the implant removed and within a day I felt so much relief. It felt like a poisonous fog had been lifted, my libido was restored, and I felt less depressed."""
"I just got my nexplanon removed about a week ago, after 10 months with the evil thing in my arm. I had my period for about three months straight when I first got it, than none at all. That was the biggest positive, no period. I had read reviews of the side effects before and thought no I'll be okay. Beware. Take it into consideration. The benefits are there but to me the negatives are much more powerful. I had the worst mood swings, I became depressed and extremely anxious. My acne got much worse. I had never been an emotional person before, rarely cried. With all these hormones I could cry over anything. There was constantly a choke in my throat for the tears to flow. It took me a while to figure out this was the cause, I thought I was going crazy. It was definitely the best decision for me to get it out. Don't simply brush off the potential side effects, they are so real."
"I had nexplanon on 11 December 2018 , and I am removing it on 27 Feb 2019 . The only reason is terrible pain while having sex , I can rate the pain 9 out of 10 . So I am removing it ."
"Got this in November of 2016 so I'm still about 8 months away from its expiration date but I'm getting it taken out this week. I do love that I never have to worry about taking the pill and my headaches have decreased since being on this. However, the positives do not outweigh the negatives. The last year or so my periods have been so irregular and every time I do get my period, the side effects are always unpredictable. Sometimes the bleeding is light, with minor side effects. Other times it lasts for weeks with migraines, occasional vomiting, loss of appetite and bloating. I hate the variation of how much or little I bleed and the constant fear that maybe I can be pregnant when it decides not to give me my period or only a light spotting. On top of that, I have gained at least 20 pounds since being on this and I have been trying very hard to lose the weight and can't. I hated the pill but looks like I'm switching back."
"I used the pill 2 years. I started Nexplanon in 2013, I started to feel detached to friends and relationships. My sex drive was off. But I had 4-6 spottings in 3 years. I changed my implant 3 months after expiration. In between, I fell in love and was happy. When I reinstalled it the littlest things had me on edge and I would flip out! We stopped having sex as often and I couldn't care less to be in his company as frequently, and I broke up with him due to an argument in which I overreacted about thou I really liked him. The next month, I had an anxiety attack at work and mental breakdown I almost quit my job. We got back together and it's been hard. When were good it's great, when I get upset it's zero to a hundred and most things are small things. I've also experienced yeast build up, dehydration, sore breast, frequent and long periods; nauseous and loss of appetite, backpains, dizziness in bright areas, It takes a while to get wet even when I'm interested. I can't live like this."
"I'm 25 and I got my implant on June 2018. I was very happy because I didn't want to deal anymore  with pills.  I was forgetting to take them and then implant was the best choice for me. I got my period after a month of the implant been on my system and I had it for 3 weeks the worst nightmare and it hadn't come back since that time. I still noticed changes on my body I used to weight 150lb when I got the implant now I'm 200lb I look horrible my boobs got bigger from DD I'm now DDD, I had so many mood swings, that it really has affected  my relationship  to the stage that now I'm single and fat. The only good things about this birth control to me it's you don't have to worry about taking pills  and no period that's all.  Since that's not enough to me I got my appointment next week to remove it I rather have my period and still look sexy  than not having it and look like I just ate the entire market, worst gain weight in my life never again..."
"I've had Nexplanon for 8 months and I love it so far! The first month I had some spotting but have had no periods after that! And I love that I don't have to take a pill everyday. This is the best birth control I've been on by far. The only side effect that I've noticed is a little more acne, but not horrible. There are a ton of bad reviews on here for this birth control, but personally it works for me. Worth a try at least!"
"I have had this birth control for about 8 months now. It definitely is great if you are a forgetful person, and it is nice that it's 99% effective. Now time for the side effects. At the beginning, I would bleed for 11-13 days with breaks ranging from one day to a week. Other side effects have come and gone randomly like sore breasts, lack of natural lubrication, bloating, and anxiety (which I had anxiety to begin with). After 6 months, my bleeding had longer breaks, but it was HEAVY when it was on. My gyno had me take the pill for ten days with my Nexplanon, and my I've had two periods (both were pretty light). My gyno told me these symptoms are only experienced by 12% of users. I'm still sticking it out because the symptoms, while annoying, don't bother me too much. I know Nexplanon gets some hate, but I think it is worth the try. You can always get it removed."
"I've been on nexplanon since 3/19/18 and so far I love it! I never had the pill but I did the depo for the most part of my adult life. After I had my daughter at 21 I started the depo didn't really have much side effects not even weight gain, to be honest that's what I really was looking forward to but I got hair on my chin just a few I'll pluck no biggie. I got off the depo at 34 and my body I guess went back to normal. I got prego and "lost" it by choice then got on nexplanon I'm 35 now and I have no periods just a spotting episode that lasted 3 days, no mood swings, I have the chin hairs back but laser works or twiz but no babies! It'll be a year with it 3/19/19 hopefully I will continually have the same results. My daughter has one as well now."
"My side effects are that I have mood swings and a depressed mood. I will take it out ASAP."
"Nexplanon sounded like a great option: stays in your arm for three years, and had very few side effects.  However, I had the bar in my arm for three years, and I spotted every day, every month except for the first two.  I rarely had periods, just constant light spotting but for months on end.  I talked to my gynecologist about it after the first two months, I was prescribed a low dose hormone that was suppose to fix the issue, and it was fixed briefly but came back.  I tried to stick it out to avoid getting it removed, but it got to be too much."
"It has been good bc I don't have periods anymore but I have had serious depression at random times for no reason since I got it put in"
"Got nexplanon after my daughter was born. 1st year seemed fine. I didn't get my period for the whole year. Year 2 was just a nightmare. Every month, my emotional PMS symptoms lasted longer and longer a long with bleeding for longer periods until I felt completely anxious and depressed all the time. Insomnia kept getting worse as well. I never wanted to leave the house. I would have crippling exhaustion. Couldn't get off my couch but also couldn't sleep. I just got it removed on Friday 02-15-2019 and I'm even more exhausted than ever. I'm feeling a bit better today with moments where I feel some energy. Someone I know said it took her 4 months to feel "back to normal". So, at least I have a realistic time frame. Wish I never got the implant. Never got pregnant though. So there's that."
"Effective birth control. Made me depressed! I had Nexplanon implanted 1 month after the birth of our daughter. As a new mother everything is new like not sleeping, crazy hormones, etc. I thought maybe I was having a hard time coping as a new parent and being sleep deprived. After 16 months with Nexplanon and still waking up feeling like I had already lost before the day begins, low confidence, strained relationship with my husband, then I had it removed. The very next day I woke up feeling like myself! It's been a week without it and the only sadness I feel is that I could have felt happy sooner. I will never use Nexplanon again."
"I've been on Nexplanon for 7 years and it has worked great! I really want to see what my body will be like without it though. I was 13 when I first got it... so I never really got to experience my body's cycle without birth control (nexplanon)."
"Pros: I loved not having to take a pill every day, that nothing had to be "inserted" into my uterus (IUD), I loved being 99% protected, after a few weeks my "period" was just some spotting for a few days. Cons: Immediately, I became very dehydrated. Usually in the winter I need chapstick but it was August and I was constantly dry, waking up at night with cracked lips. I drank water constantly but was always feeling dehydrated. Months later I became very depressed; it was hard for me to get out of bed. I would get very emotional if the smallest thing happened and I feel like I spent the year being comforted. I got extremely hairy on my chin, GAINED 30 LBS, was nauseous after every meal, and had bad hormonal acne on my neck. PLEASE do your research before starting any kind of BC."
"I had the implant put in rite after my second child was born. So he arrived Sep 18th 2018 Sept 20th 2018 it was put in. Since being home it is now Feb 17th 2019 I have not had one day without spotting  or bleeding. I'll get a heavy period twice a month. Lasting 3 to 4 days. And then it'll stop an become spotting. But there hasn't been not one day that I haven't bleed. Still have the implant in but def reconsidering it to be taken out. I do not recommend it. The bleeding is super heavy.  An starts out of no where never at the same time or day."
"""I'm 38 and for approx 15 years I've been using these implants, I would recommend it to all my girlfriends.
I've had a great experience. No weight gain, No acne, No Bleeding!
That was until this latest implant on 26 March 2018.  Immediately I started suffering with anxiety, was terrified to go out the house, would hide in the hallway shaking if anyone knocked on the door. 
Then the weight started to pile on, a year ago I was 105lbs now, I'm guessing 126lbs. I'm a completely different shape and my clothes no longer fit.
I've had to start wearing glasses as my eyesight went from clear to blurry overnight.
Recently nightmares started and I wake up soaking with sweat. My limbs ache like I have the flu and I have no energy.
June2018 I went to my GP about the anxiety and asked if it could be the Nexplanon. Her reply "" I doubt it, you've had them before"". Then promptly put me on SSRI's
I feel old, tired, fat, gross, lazy and sore. I want it out ASAP.
All good things come to an end!"""
"I had the Nexplanon in for 4 months. The worst part was having my period 2-3 weeks a month. I don't know if my sex drive was impacted directly or if I just didn't feel like sex because I was constantly bleeding. I had weight gain without any change in eating habits. Also, some intensifying of my anxiety. Got it taken out and happy to say goodbye to the Nexplanon!"
"Overall this form of birth control is convenient. Not having a daily pill was beneficial. Placement and removal was painless. However, the side effects I experienced weren't worth it. I had mood-swings, was fatigued, & had acne. Having acne as a 33 y.o. was less than ideal. I used this form of birth control twice. The first time, I didn't  realize the side effects were caused by the birth control. I was told that female hormones change in your 30's so I didn't put two and two together. I hadn't experienced this while on the pill & wasn't warned of the side effects. Due to different conflicts I kept the implant for 3yrs & 7mths (yes, it was “expired”). 2 months before I had it replaced there was a noticeable decrease in my acne. Once the implant was replaced I noticed a significant difference in my mood & the acne returned. I kept it for 8 mths hoping the hormones would level out & the side effects would decrease. Unfortunately they didn't so I switched back to the pill."
"""I had an awful experience on this birth control. Doctors don't do enough to explain the severity of the side effects. Mine mentioned water weight gain and irregular periods. She didn't mention I'd lose my mind.
About 1 year into using this implant I noticed what began as heightened periods of anxiety about 3 months in turn into crippling full-body anxiety as if my amygdala were in overdrive and severe depression. I had, intrusive  and obsessive thoughts, dissociation and suicidal ideations. Things I have never experienced.
My therapist, doctor and a psychiatrist all said that after 3 months my body should be regulated, but when I finally saw an endocrinology PA, she told me that she had heard many stories from women who have been on progestrin-only birth control and experience depression symptoms. 
I had it removed and within a few days I noticed the anxiety that I woke up with every day started to slowly dissipate.  After about 1.5 weeks I'm starting to feel like myself again"""
"""I had started Implanon in 2011, in my early 20's. I had no issues and didn't bleed for the first 2 years. The last year of my first implant, I started spotting. Still, everything seemed grand! I got off the implant, tried the ring HATED IT, then went to the pill for a few months. I wasn't happy and went back for a second implant. Second time around seemed fine; again, the last year is when I started spotting. Got off, no BC for 6 months. Feeling like a normal woman was crazy. I had not dealt with cramps in years, I knew when I was ovulating (and so did my husband*), I has a couple PMS days before the period was flowing. It was great being able to keep track, and understanding my body and moods more. 
Back to Nexplanon, I don't know if it's MY body changing because I'm 30 now or what, it has not been my friend. Period is all over the place, depressed days for no reason, horrible cramps, not as into sex or wet, way more on edge. It's been about 4 months and I'm miserable."""
"I chose to get the Nexplanon implant because of its effectiveness at preventing pregnancy. I was on the pill for 3 years and switched to the implant in March of 2018 after doing a good deal of research and talking to my doctor. I read many reviews in which women claimed to have randomly gained weight, experienced lack of sex drive, get far heavier periods than they were used to, etc., but I chose to get the implant regardless, thinking that the side effects had to largely be figments of the women's imaginations. Well, after a year with Nexplanon, I have to admit that my experience has mirrored almost every negative review I read. I have gained about 10 pounds despite getting regular exercise and adhering to a healthy diet, I have never had less sex drive, and my periods are long (once lasting almost 12 weeks), extremely heavy, and more painful than they have ever been. I would recommend almost every other form of birth control before Nexplanon and plan to have it removed immediately."
"I've been on this birth control for about three years now and in the beginning everything was fine until a year in I noticed a crazy amount of weight gain. I used to weigh about 160 pounds and now I'm close to 220. I feel disgusting and have lost all self confidence. I'm extremely depressed and have no motivation to do anything! I lash out at my boyfriend all the time and am always cranky. I have lost so much hair too. I'm getting nexplanon out in two days and I'm so relieved. This is a chance for me to start over and I'm ready for it"
"So I'm on my 6th year with it. I got it my first year of high-school. I want to say this has caused some issues for me but I really can't be sure, I got it while I was young, my body could have still been developing.  But since I've had the implant, my acne has cleared, my mood somewhat stabilized, my sex drive is through the roof.  My periods are very irregular.  I'll go months with nothing and then get a normal period for a week.  But I've noticed that stress has a lot to do with it being triggered.  Once I was really stressed for a long period of time and got my cycle very heavy for about 3 months.  My weight was around 150ish when I got it and now I'm 230.  I eat a little more Than 2000 calories a day but I have a manual labor job.  My weight hasn't changed in two years sadly.  I feel bloated constantly, always hungry and thirsty and constantly tired.  But since I don't really know what my adult body was like BEFORE the implant   there's no way to know for sure..  But I have no babies."
"I got the nexplanon in January 2019 after the 8 weeks from having my baby and it's  February 2019 and am about to get it taken out. My period will go off for 1-3 days and literally come right back on and I have occasionally break outs in my face I personally do not like it."
"I'll keep this short. My symptoms from week 1 are: hair falling out after washing and brushing. 2 month long periods, maybe a week with out any bleeding. Started getting acne pretty bad, face, back and chest, like black heads and then the mood swings. My already bad anxiety got worse, I would cry (I don't really cry over the dumbest thing) and irritable, I would snap at people like PMS feelings but worse. I did however gain weight,  I needed that though. I always liked the patch...."
"I had Nexplanon inserted on June 20, 2018, at 17 years old. I got it removed on February 11, 2019, at 18 years old. After having it for about 8 months, I can say the negative side effects outweigh the positive effects. Immediately after getting it inserted, I had an anxiety attack & felt overwhelming emotions all day. For the next few months, I fought depression and LOTS of mood swings, along with high anxiety in almost every situation. I bled the entire time I had it, except for a week or two in between. Most of the time it was heavy bleeding, not spotting. The only reason I kept it in was to see if my body would adjust, but it never did. My face also began breaking out towards the end of having it. The only positives for my experience was the free cost & the prevention of pregnancy. I would NOT recommend this for teenagers who experience frequent mood changes, anxiety, depression, or acne."
"""I've had the implant in for a year now and I really like it. I decided to move to a more permanent form of birth control because I'm not always consistent with taking the pill and I was experiencing worsening PMS symptoms over the years. 
I've had no changes to my skin, if anything a slight improvement. Overall my mood is far more stable when I experience symptoms which is currently every 2-3 months. My periods have fluctuated quite a bit in that I had nothing for 3 months after insertion. Then I had a 2 week period that consisted of just brown blood, which was kind of gross. But since then, I really can't complain other than I can't fully predict when it's going to happen and if it'll last 3 or 8 days. If that's the worst thing I have to deal with to have protection from pregnancy- so be it. 
I've had no change in weight or appetite either. So overall I'm super happy with it and I'm just hoping for less or no periods as I continue to have it in."""
"Nexplanon RUINED my life. 9 weeks of heavy bleeding when I had it inserted; about 1 month after getting it I started to experience extreme fatigue, acne, nausea and complete loss of appetite, heart palpitations and shortness of breath, massive hair loss, severe depression (feeling hopeless and borderline suicidal) and anxiety/paranoia. Anemia due to the bleeding. Not to mention my relationship suffered because we weren't able to have sex for months. I ended up in the ER thinking I was having a heart attack or stroke due to the symptoms. DO NOT PUT THIS IN YOUR BODY."
"I was on Nexplanon for a year. Frankly, I thought about having it removed after six months but I knew I should stick with it for a year. At the beginning I had hair loss but it subsided. The worst part was the periods. I would spot enough to have to wear a pad for several days, then I would have Niagara Falls of bleeding for about 4-5 days, then it would trail off. That would repeat again two weeks later. I never used to get cramps during my period but I got really hard ones while on Nexplanon. I had it taken out today and I'm going back to the pill. I also gained about 30 pounds with no change in dietary habits. Every body is different; a friend of mine has had one for two years and has no period and almost no side effects."
"I have been on Nexplanon for a little over 2 years. Before I was on it I did not have depression but within a few months of getting that implant I was diagnosed with it and begged my doctor for a prescription for it. Nexplanon has had its up and downs and quite frankly year two was worse than year one on it. I am scheduled to have it removed next week and I am so excited. To me the depression and anxiety are not worth it. The anxiety keeps me up at night and the depression makes it hard to focus and interferes with life. I kept a routine and steady menstrual flow on it so the depression is my reason removal. I'm smaller in size and usually very sensitive to medicine and the environment. This hormonal BC is a one size fits all and I'm thinking is just way to strong for me. Hoping to have my life back in order once this thing is out!"
"Holy moly did this birth control cause acne. SEVERE CYSTIC ACNE. I am currently on a 6 month course of Accutane because of how harmful these hormones were to my skin. I had deep, PAINFUL, cystic bumps all over my face, neck, and back starting 2 months in to Nexplanon and they only got worse. I had the device removed after 11 months because I couldn't stand it any longer. The longevity of the device and the less frequent periods were the only positives. I definitely would not recommend."
"I have been on Nexplanon for about 2 years now BUT I will be removing it soon ! My pros on this birth control is not having my period, you don't have to worry about getting pregnant of course . Now my CONS are that I became depressed which I have never experienced and I have anxiety which I have never experienced before. I get angry for the littlest things! My sex drive is hardly there because it usually feel discomfort now if I'm being honest. I have very intense headaches which I would call migraines but I haven't been to the doctors to be diagnosed. Recently I lost pigmentation on two of my fingers I don't know if it's because I have been stressing over minor things so far I have had a terrible experience beside not getting pregnant of course I do not recommend this at all ."
"I do not recommend this birth control AT ALL. I had mine in for about a year, first few months weren't too bad, had irregular periods but my Dr put me on the pill to help with that. After about 5 months I was bleeding about 3 weeks a month on and off. And most of the time was heavy bleeding. My mood completely changed. I had severe anxiety and ended up having to quit my job because I was having panic attacks at least once a week. I'd wake up dizzy and nauseous every single day. I treated my husband and my kids horribly when I'd have my mood swings and get upset with them for no reason. I felt like a completely different person and it scared me.  And then I'd hate myself for the way I'd acted (which I've never had a temper before) I weighed 125lb when it was inserted and gained about 35lbs, which I still am having a hard time losing. Since I've had it out I feel like I'm back to my normal self. It's scary what those hormones can do to your body"
"If I could give anyone reading this who is considering getting the implant advice it would be this: Don't do it!! It is NOT worth the risk of the bad side effects. I normally don't have bad reactions to medications, so I thought I would be one of the lucky ones without the awful side effects. Nope! I had medium heavy spotting for 120+ days in a row about a month after getting it in. On top of that, I experienced the side effect of losing self lubrication. Yup, I didn't even get to enjoy sex while I had it in. I didn't gain weight, but I did experience worse acne. Getting it out 5 months ago instead of roughing it through 3 years of that was one of the best decisions of my life."
"DO NOT RECOMMEND, I've been on nexplanon for the 3yrs and getting it out today..literally can't wait, my doc went on an on about how I needed to try it because I had been on depo off an on for 15yrs, well worst decision of my life!! My twin brother had died of massive heart attack 3yrs ago and I've never had any issues except last 5 months it's been a roller-coaster going 2 different heart docs for tests, and nothing has been found..I've always had issues with nexplanon my periods at first was non existing then gradually came couple times a month, and reason for my heart docs was because I out of blue started having episodes that strongly suggested it was my heart an nothing has been found wrong - it is  bad severe ANXIETY and PANIC ATTACKs. My arm hurts so bad I wanna cut it off..anyway hope this helps, that's my story an I'm hoping for a great outcome once it's out an I can get back to the normal me!!"
"I've had nexplanon for two months now, and I gotta tell you, the first month was THE WORST. My mood swings the first month was probably the most difficult time I have ever experienced. My boyfriend would do something so small and I would cry so easy, over the dumbest things. My first period of that month lasted 15 days, and I would spot brown before and after the period experience. The second month got a lot better, my emotions started levelling out and my spotting started getting lighter and lighter until I hit the 2 month mark of that month. I didn't spot or bleed for a week and then after that I started bleeding again, BUT I am scheduled to have my period at the end of the month. But the most weirdest thing about it is that I only actually bleed when I go to the rest room, or when I have sex. After that nothing really shows up on my pads. I haven't seen any reviews about that situation but everyone is different. It's my second day bleeding, also have period symptoms."
"Honestly. I never realized all that was wrong with this birth control until I read the comments here. When I first got it 9 months ago ish, I was 130lbs. I am now 150lb and I haven't changed my eating habits at all. I have become so irritable when I'm around my family that as soon as I walk in the door of my house I'm instantly in a bad mood even if nobody says anything to me. I have had this weird, brown, stringy spotting since the first week of having this BC and it only stops for maybe a week at a time, it's hard to tell. My back pain is horrid. My boobs randomly feel like they're solid and I live in a constant fear that I'm pregnant. My symptoms have been getting worse since the last few months with nausea, fatigue, and stomach irritability happening this week. I think I am going to get it removed soon. I just don't trust anything to prevent pregnancy and so far this has the highest effectiveness and I don't trust the pills at all."
"I've been on Nexplanon for 1 year and 2 months. I really love the implant, because I'm not pregnant lol. I'm 20 years old so to me that's very young to become pregnant when I'm not financially stable. I haven't had a period since I got the implant. The side effects I got for a few months were abdominal pain, increase in appetite, weight gain, headaches, nausea, mood changes and acne. Now being on it for over a year, all the symptoms went away besides acne, but it comes and goes so I have no problem with that. I highly recommend getting Nexplanon if you're not ready to get pregnant. It's highly effective and I don't have to worry taking pills every single day since I forget easily. It's an easy procedure and it's last for 3 years! It's different for everyone so just give it a chance and if you don't like what's doing to your body, just get it removed and seek a different type of birth control. Best wishes to all and be pregnant free!"
"""I really gave Nexplanon a chance.
The insertion is painless, and quick. The first few months I experienced a period every two weeks with spotting in between. I knew that was a risk, so I was honestly okay with it. And around the 4 month mark, the periods seemed to calm down and I got used to it. 
Then, around two months ago I noticed a large painful lump on my breast. It was diagnosed as a cyst. Then a month later, 3 MORE cysts were found on my breasts. Then today, another was found.  Over the course of a couple months, I developed 5 CYSTS in my breasts that are all still there. I was told it was likely the implant, and my doctor advised me to remove it. 
Weight gain, never-ending periods, always feeling like I'm pregnant...I felt I was tough enough to handle all of that. 
But constant breast pain from cysts and swelling, where they cannot even be touched by ME? Not on top of everything else. 
The implant comes out tomorrow. I hope your experience is better than mine."""
"I got my Nexplanon removed today after having it for 3 years. So glad to have it out! My periods were constant. I would literally bleed for 2 months and then be off for like a week. My husband doesn't swim in the bloody river so it definitely affected our love life. The only good thing I have to say about it is I never really had cramps. I guess because I was literally always bleeding. I got the Skyla IUD put it today. Hopefully it won't be as bad."
"I have had the NEXPLANON implant for eleven months now. I have always got my period once a month for sevens days. Since NEXPLANON my periods keep getting longer each cycle. My period started sometime in October of 2018 and is still on and it January 29, 2019. Enough is Enough! I have lost weight and have headaches and I'm always sad which I believe is this NEXPLANON implant. I'm having it removed today and I'm actually excited!"
"Insertion was super easy and quick, and the healing process wasn't bad at all. However, after a month of inserting it I got my period for about three months straight. It was heavy for maybe the first week or two, for the next two months it was light enough to wear panty liners. Those three months I was super moody, agitated all the time, usually even after day one of beginning the cycle you just want your period to end, so imagine three months!!! I read reviews and hoped I'd be the lucky ones who didn't have their period for months or even just five days a month. But NO, my body said "girl I'm going to mess you up", after the three months, I didn't have my period for a week and was so relieved. Next day came, and BOOM spotting again. My period comes back about every two weeks and last for a week. I've had nexplanon in for eight months so far, I've gained 20 pounds and my mood swings are outrageous. Everyone's body is different so hopefully if you try it you have a better experience!"
"I have had nexplanon now for (2) cycles or 6 years. When I was 22 I had it first put it and loved that I didn't have to worry about taking a daily pill and it was just always there. My first implant was great, minimal periods, no acne/weight gain/libido issues. I had a second one out in 3 years later and the experience has not been the same. I have noticed increased anxiety, exhaustion, decrease in libido, and very irregular periods. Contemplating a different method as I'm coming up on my 3 year removal date. But I can say that I have not gotten pregnant, so it's done it's job in that aspect!"
"""First of all, check if your doctor is paid by anyone who has a vested interest in a product do your research on it google openpaymentsdata.cms.gov
Second, some say the FDA is corrupt! Watch Bleeding Edge on Netflix.
Third: my experience with Nexplanon has been fine. I started with some mood swings but after realizing it might be because of this implant, I was able to take that self awareness and help keep my mood in check. 
I have gained some weight but attribute this to other factors such as lack of consistent, routine exercise. 
The process of getting it put in was easy and virtually painless. 
I had one bout of spotting shortly after the implant, and then about 7 months later I had a period which was relatively light and mild. 
Sex drive is low but still there.
So far, this has felt like a good option for me. But if it's not for you, trust your instincts and go with something else!"""
"LISTEN!!! & Listen CAREFULLY!! RUNN ! Run FAR AWAY! YES! This birth control work differently on everyone. But don't put your life in jeopardy by chancing it!! This birth control has made my life purely awful! I got it implanted in 2016! It was fine til the 6 months! Regular monthly 4-5 day periods , minimal acne, no weight gain, NOTHING!! Then all of a sudden I changed into a different person. NEVER in my life even knew how anxiety felt, never recall having depression. CRAZY ABSURD THOUGHTS! Literally feel like a psychopath! Let not mention I've gained 50 pounds ! I feel disgusting! I have mini panic attack's! I'm a pure evil to my boyfriend. I don't even want to leave the house.  I have anxiety about EVERY LITTLE THING! Nexplanon was the worse decision of my life! I'm completely done with birth control . I have it removed next month on the 11th and Lord I wish that day would hurry up and come!"
"I was on Nexplanon for about two years before I got it out. I had insane cravings and gained so much weight. My body was so cute back then, and I'm sad to say it's probably worse from having this implant than it would've been had I got pregnant. I've been trying to conceive for quite a while now, with no results- I eat healthy, take my prenatal vitamins and don't drink. My weight may have a little to do with this, but I do think Nexplanon has a pretty big role in this.  Nexplanon was nice to be on, although I never knew when my period would be, so always be prepared! I could have sex safely without worrying about pregnancy, and that was very nice. Honestly, just use condoms all the time and have extra emergency contraceptive pills ready in case they break. It'd be easier than this."
"""I had a very bad experience with Nexplanon. Bleeding for 3 weeks of every month for 1.5 years, and a 50lb weight gain with no change in diet. I never became pregnant, so I am giving it one star for that. I would have gotten it removed sooner but I was uninsured for a time and got stuck with it until my insurance kicked in at the beginning of the year. I just got it out yesterday and am trying a copper IUD and am going to try and loose weight again!  (I tried before but I couldn't counteract the weight-gaining hormones and gave up)
I know two other people who have used it as well - one of them uses Dragontime essential oil and that stopped her bleeding, and she hasn't had any other issues with it. The other person I knew couldn't resolve the bleeding at all and had it removed."""
"Had this a few years ago and needed to remove it within 6 months of insertion. I was on the pill for about 4 years before with no problems. Insertion of nexplanon was easy. Within a month or two, I was full on depressed- not able to leave my bed, sleeping a majority most of the day & night, hopeless. One reason for this was the induced IBS. I NEVER had intestinal problems before this. Sorry for the explicitness, but I couldn't go anywhere without 3 second access to a bathroom. Diarrhea for weeks on end. TERRIBLE cramps and indigestion pains to the point that I thought I would pass out (10/10 pain scale). As soon as I got it removed, my intestinal issues mostly subsided. Still dealing with it but not even remotely close to the problems I had on Nexplanon. I'll also mention that it shifted from the insertion sight. The nurse who removed it had to dig around my arm and through scar tissue for over 20 min to find it. If I could go back, I never would have gotten it."
"I chose to get nexplanon to help with my terrible periods. My hormones have been off lately. I was getting hot flashes and my cramps were unbearable. I thought that if my periods went away it would be a great. Also not having to worry about getting pregnant. I've only been on Nexplanon for a little over two months. I've had nothing but issues from the start. The nexplanon area was bruised and sore for weeks. Couldn't sleep on that side of my body and if I used that arm I would get a tingling pain feeling in it. My periods have lasted for 3 weeks each. It starts off light then it's like a waterfall. I've gained weight, I'm moody, and extremely depressed. Little things set me off and I've become super emotionally. I've never been one to cry but I can't count the times I have since I've been on this birth control. My sex drive is completely gone. I'm giving it a few more months but I will most likely get it taken out. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone."
"I just recently got nexplanon removed after 4 years. I enjoyed being on it. Beside irregular periods I gained weight that I needed and there was no effect on my acne. Moods were a bit scattered at first but with my psychiatrist prescribing antidepressants I was okay.  I have only had it out for a day and really considering going back for a new one. I recommend this product if you are in tune with yourself and comfortable with minor side effects."
"I'm very nervous and I don't know if I should get it. My periods come every once in a while and when I'm on my period I get angry and then cry for no reason. Will this be heightened or will this slow down."
"""I had nexplanon inserted 6 months ago, my pros are: I haven't had my period ever since it was inserted, my libido has considerably increased, no pains and no kids. 
Cons: A LOT of weight gain, in the beginning I had  a lot of mood swings...  I noticed that if I felt just a little sad or if I had any small negative thought - it would aggravate me and I would cry my heart out, so I tried to stay positive but I only became extremely anxious to a point where I couldn't go sleep (4am rolling in bed). Now I'm on therapy, which is helping me a lot, and I feel like I have more control of my emotions (I don't know if it's because of therapy or because I just got to the 6 month mark - or both.) The only other problem that really bothers me is acne... I've never had it before in my life but my face is popping ever since nexplanon was inserted... ohhh and I'm always bloated and trying to manage anger. 
If you have depression and/or anxiety, BEWARE!"""
"I had the nexplanon inserted in 2015 had absolutely no issues with it whatsoever.  The only change I noticed is I became quite moody during my monthly cycles. Other than that out of all the birth control I've tried this has been the best for ME! Everything is not for everyone! My 3 years had expired so I got another one reinserted this past month. I'm getting married in September and will consider having it removed when I want to start a family. At my appointment I questioned the doctor regarding any fertility issues after removal and he reassured me I should be safe."
"""It is NOT WORTH IT. Nexplanon has severely inhibited my life.
For starters, the periods! I have been on this for about 10 months now. I have been constantly on my period since I got it in with no signs of stopping, only small (like one or two day) breaks every month or so. I got the birth control so I could have sex, and now I feel like I can't! The bleeding is so heavy.
Loss of sex drive. SERIOUSLY.
ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION TO THE MAX. I can't sleep because I imagine everyone I love dying. I cry when my husband leaves the house because I'm scared he will die in an accident. I get angry over stupid things and start to hate people when I used to pride myself on being kind. My husband begged me to remove the implant because the mood swings and anxiety was so bad. 
Weight gain. A lot of it. I've never struggled with my weight before. Now with the nexplanon I have gained 50 pounds with exercise and dieting, and the scale keep going up no matter what I do- it's hopeless."""
"I have had this implant in for 9 months now and wanted to share my experience. For the first 3 months it was great, no weight gain, no effect on sex drive etc. I had irregular bleeding but was told this can take up to 6 months to sort itself out (which it did). Around month 4 I started to notice changes in my mood, I'm now on month 9 and have crippling anxiety. I've always had anxiety to some extent so I'm not blaming it completely on Nexaplanon but I can tell you it's gotten MUCH worse. I'm seeing my gp tomorrow to see if he will put me on medication to help with my anxiety- I've never felt my anxiety was bad enough to do this but I honestly can't take it anymore. If you have a history of mental health I would seriously think twice about getting this implant. As a birth control it's great, think it's almost impossible to get pregnant with it in, which is why I'm not rating it that badly!"
"For some this method works and is amazing. For me it was NOT! I only had it for a month. As soon as I got it my moods went crazy. My counsellor told me to get it taken out immediately because I was becoming depressed and my anger got out of control. It did help my heavy bleeding. But I couldn't handle the headaches. Mood swings. The final straw was when my chest hurt. I went back to the doctor 4 different times and they kept refusing to remove it. I literally had to go in with a razor and threaten to cut it out myself before they would remove it."
"It is 10/10"
"The majority of the side affects I already had prior to using this method. It work great for me cuz I hate shots and not always good with time for the pills. I walk a lot to keep my stress levels down. I bleed 3 times a year for like weeks at a time one time it was on for 7 weeks and another time it was on for 2 weeks. Or I would spot one week and then it's on heavy for 5 days. But cycle was never the same after giving birth to three kids back to back."
"I have had Nexplanon for 1 year and 1 month so far. I have had no period since having it inserted which would be great if I was not a total Psycho. I have never had acne in my life until now and I am 40 yrs old. I have experienced the anxiety that others have talked about, for the first-time. Body aches and fatigue are severe. I haven't gained weight but I have absolutely NO interest in sex. I have been with my partner for almost 12 years and I don't know if my relationship will last. There is no hint that I will get pregnant but that could have Everything to do with me having no sex. I would not recommend this drug. Good luck ladies."
"Sharing this since I am getting my nexplanon removed tomorrow. I have had it since April 2016 and am very satisfied with my experience! I have had very few periods since I got it inserted, which made me nervous at first but then I got used to it. I already had depression/anxiety before insertion and didn't notice any change to it with the nexplanon insertion. I did have a lower sex drive compared to on the pill, but there are other possible confounding reasons for that. I didn't gain/lose a significant amount of weight, no change in acne. I've heard horror stories but mine certainly wasn't!"
"This may be completely different for you. This was not for me. Before the nexplanon I was going through depression/ anxiety and this made it 10 times worse. I also had problems with my hands and feet going numb. I decided to inform my doctors about this and they told me it was just me and wasn't the birth control. I have gained weight, had really bad headaches and also really bad vaginal bleeding which today is the sixth day and doesn't look like stopping. This literally makes me feel pregnant and my stomach is bloated as anything. I will be getting it removed March 18"
"""One year experience.
DEPRESSION - I've never had it in my life and didn't expect it. Severe depression and suicidal thoughts. Every day was a struggle and I assumed there were other reasons or situations that was causing the depression.
My anger would explode in ways I didn't think was possible. I already have a decent level of natural anger so this increased it to the point where I felt I could have been physically dangerous to someone. I had thoughts of extreme anger and intrusive thoughts. Very disturbing.
The morning after I had it removed it felt like  an anvil was lifted off my chest and a cloud was removed from my head. It's only been a few days now but I can tell that my hormones are levelling out. My anger has lowered back down to pre-nexplanon levels and the consistent depression has left me. I would take my mental health over a 3 year BC plan, any day. 
On the positive side - no pregnancies, no weight gain and light spotting every so often."""
"I've had nexplanon just over a year now and the only downside is that I get annoying brown discharge in my underwear a lot and my period comes more frequently. Other than that it's been great."
"It gave me IBS, depression, hair thinning, weight gain, bloated stomach/diarrhea, severe anxiety & panic attacks, blurry vision, dizziness & headaches... I get it out next week. THANK GOD. Do not take this. It seems intriguing because it's so easy and highly effective, but the side effects are a killer."
"I had this back in 2016 and had it for 6 months got off of it due to weight gain. Then I got back on it 11/5/18 (day after I had my son) and it's way different from the first time I had it. This time I have headache so severe that I have to lay in bed all day under the cover or I have to take meds to calm it down a little but it will still be hurting. Also my periods are weird I'll been bleeding for 2 months but it stops for a few hours and come right back but never fully leaves. May be the reason I have high blood pressure bit sure but I'm really thinking about getting it out."
"BIG MISTAKE, ITS NOT FOR EVERYONE! I have talked to people who have nexplanon and some say they love it and some have had terrible experiences with it. Unfortunately I have had a terrible experience. I got this thing inserted May 2018 and it by month 4 I began to HATE it. Unlike other people, I did not have terrible depression/anxiety with this but I did start getting LONG and very PAINFUL periods. I start having stomach pains about a week prior to my period and when I get it the first 3 days I can barely function or walk.  Not to mention the terrible headaches. My periods now on month 8 last up to 2 weeks. I can't wait to get this thing out. For anyone considering it: it is very affective and reliable. I do enjoy not having to worry about taking a pill everyday, but the side effects are not worth it. However, if you want to take a chance, go for it. Theres no way to tell how your body will react until you try."
"Getting Nexplanon was the worst mistake I have ever made! This birth control has been added to the list of high risk birth control as I found out like Yaz etc. It can cause internal bleeding. The side effects are horrendous it killed all my libido I can't get wet for the life of me. I am so sore down in my private area and now I'm afraid I am  severely depressed. Mood swings are at all time highest. I've been having like a viral cold and scabbing in my nose non stop. Back pain abdominal pain. Constant sugary food cravings if I don't eat chocolate everyday feels like I am going to freak out. They said it should balance out after 6 months I had it for 10 and it only got worse!"
"""I had nexplanon inserted shortly after the birth of my kid in August 2016, and thought everything was fine until December of 2016 when I realized I had gained 10 lbs in Nov. I went and had my thyroid tested and everything came back normal. The doctor had no answer and gave me the spiel about better eating. Through 2017-2018, I keep gaining weight until I gained 40 lbs. I also began having uncontrollable PAINFUL breakouts that were resistant to everything I used, short of accutane and retinol. I changed my eating habits, became more active in my free time, and picked up a second job. In total, I gained 60 lbs while on nexplanon. My hair and nails also thinned and became brittle, and it worsened my depression. I hated this birth control so much. I had it removed in January 2019. 
For those still reading the pros are: 
Never having to think about it
No period, for those of us who have heavy or painful periods. 
Cons:
Literally everything else"""
"Worst thing ever!!!! So In October of 2017 I got the implant because I'm terrified of getting pregnant and condoms aren't 100% effective. So I went to the doctors they told me the implant was great. They lied for a year and a half I have had my period. I got 3 days out of the month when it went away and I wasn't bleeding. And about 6 months ago I started to have severe anxiety to where I was in the ER all the time. I could barely do anything at all it was crippling. It was so bad my body would tense up and go numb. I also got vertigo.....I'm 23 usually older people get vertigo. But anyways I just got it out today so hopefully now my anxiety will calm down. I had social anxiety when I was like 16 but it went away I've never had full on anxiety like this. So I do not recommend at all!!!!!"
"I was nervous about getting this type of birth control, considering I've never been on birth control before in general. I experienced spotting of old blood for the first two weeks after it was inserted accompanied by crazy mood swings. After the first two weeks, the mood swings subsided and so did the spotting.  At first I began to get regular periods that would last about 7 days with very mild cramps and spotting of dry blood a week before my period. This happened in a pattern like that until eventually my period stopped all together (which I'm not going to complain about!) I haven't experienced any mood swings, weight gain or breakouts either! So Overall, I really like this form of birth control! The first two weeks were difficult, but it's definitely worth going through in the end. I would definitely recommend."
"I read both positive & negative reviews before trying nexplanon. It was fully covered & my obgyn had all good things to say. The procedure was easy & I was optimistic. It ended up being the WORST medical decision ever. I bled non stop for 5+ months. My mood swings were unreal & I felt like a different (psycho) person! I cried when I was upset & even when I was happy. My relationship suffered because of the mood swings. I tried to “hang in there”, as recommended, but after over 5 months, I needed it out. It ended up being very difficult for my doctor to remove & took almost an hour of her digging & me bleeding to finally extract it. It took almost another month to start to feel normal again. I know it has worked for some, but for me it would not be worth the risk! I cannot fully explain how horrendous my experience was & it wasn't easy or quick switch back. My now fiancé (god bless him lol) & I now joke about the demon the implant made me. Please beware ladies & good luck!"
"First I would say all meds work differently for everyone. I had this birth control 3 times, which I had in for 9 years. I finally got it taken out around August 2017. I figure 9 years was enough. I really enjoyed having it because I would have a period maybe every 7-8 months for 3 days. The only thing I would complain about is hair thinning out."
"I got the nexplanon when I was 17 and I'm currently 23. I've replaced it twice and have never had any problems with it. I didn't get any negative side effects besides not getting my period every month but that wasn't a problem for me."
"Only had it in for 3 months, only had one period, not gained any weight and not had any noticeable mood swings. Craved chocolate a lot to the point where I thought I was pregnant (I've never really been a chocolate eater). The procedure to put it in was quite painful and 24 hours after when you have to take the bandage off. I was sick because of the pressure being taken off my arm and also the plaster gets stuck to your cut so I am scared about getting it taken out. Over all I think this is a great birth control especially if you're forgetful and want to be completely covered."
"I have had a horrible experience. I developed horrible body acne that has left scars and I spotted constantly. After over a year, my period stopped. No other side effects that I could tell. (looking back my mood was VERY ERRATIC) After 2 years my period came back with a vengeance (my mood was waaaaay better). When I went back at the 3 year mark to have it removed my doctor told me "oh it does that. When you get the new one it'll disappear again." So I thought okay well I'll have it put in and if it doesn't control my period better I'll get it out. Here we are. Month 4 of the 2nd Nexplanon. Not only are my periods much much worse I have been on a terrible heavy period for 3 weeks (think 5 maxi pads or more a day plus blood clots). 2 months ago my doc put me on birth control pills as well to help with my period.  On top of not reducing my period or stopping it it KILLED my sex drive (pills). I'm scheduling to get it removed asap. Oh and the acne came back. I'm in my late 20s"
"Overall this method is definitely the most effective. Once it's inserted you forget it's there! I've used it for 3 months now. Although it's very effective, the side effects are very real too. The first few weeks I had very frequent depressive moods and felt sad A LOT. (I've never had depressive episodes before so it was very hard for me) I don't recommend this to anyone with a history of depression because of this. Also, the second month I spotted very often for about 2-3 weeks. Now on month 3, I don't have a period but I have gained about 4 pounds. Although that might be cause it's holiday season lol"
"This has been an awful experience. I've had it in for 6 months and my periods have been brutal. The dizziness, headaches, and nausea have worn off and periods are no longer lasting 2 months but am still having ridiculously long periods with terrible cramping. Seems to work either really great for people or is miserable, no in between. Would not recommend because there's no way to know how good or bad it'll work for your body."
"I've had this implant for about 9 months now and I absolutely hate it. Not sure if this has happened to anyone else but I was bleeding for the first six month. The blood was very dark and it had a horrible odor. I wouldn't let my man touch me I felt so disgusting. Weight gain came with the bleeding and my mood swings are out of control. If my man doesn't clean the counter off properly I would burst out in tears. I'm happy to have not gotten pregnant but I am happy to say I have a doctors appointment and I'm taking it out with no hesitation. It has destroyed my self-esteem and I have to find another method of birth control because this is not for me. Good Luck Ladies!"
"I'm running on almost 4 years of nexaplanon. My first one expired and another one was inserted around six months ago. It was okay at first, I didn't feel much change back in 2015. But then periods became heavier and more frequent and my mood was off the charts. I hadn't realized because I became used to it and so did everyone around me. It was when I had my nexaplonin removed and new one placed when it went a lil crazy. Thankfully I'm getting it removed next week and being put on pills for a little. 10/10 for effectiveness. Other than that I recommend 4/10. Side effects sucks and weight gain is COMMON."
"I had this implant put into my 16 year old on the recommendation of her gynecologist, after 6 months she was having periods that lasted 3 weeks heavy bleeding and cramps so bad she couldn't walk upright, along with anxiety so bad she would spend days in bed, I had to fight very hard to get it removed the insurance and the doctor said it was all in her head, rubbish!!! When removal time finally came the implant was LOST IN HER ARM!!!! The insurance and doctors wanted to leave it in and put her on more hormones, I insisted and it was found buried in muscle tissue close to major arteries and on a major nerve...if not removed she might have lost use of her arm.She went threw major surgery to remove it but it was worth it. DO NOT GET ."
"A lot of my friends had turned to nexplanon for their contraception, so I thought it would be good for me, too. They had all told me they had gained weight on it, but that wasn't something I was too concerned about. I got the rod put in 3 days before I left to go back to college and I really really really wish I had a month to adapt to the BC and see how badly it would affect me. I have dealt with anxiety and depression since forever but it has always been easy to cope with, but now that I have nexplanon, my anxiety is through the roof about everything and nothing, and my depression is eating me alive. It feels like everyday is a constant struggle to keep going. I haven't gained any weight and haven't bled once since I got nexplanon, so that why it is worth it to me, but I'm not sure if I can handle the stress it is putting on me mentally anymore. I still have more than 2 year with this thing in my arm; what other contraception won't give me my period?"
"Please please listen to this. I did not listen to all the other horror stories and proceeded to get the implant anyway. Nexplanon was one of the worst decisions I've ever made. I've had it for six months. The first five were relatively okay minus the fact that I bled every single day minus one month I was given a pack of birth control pills. I had mood swing here and there and only a bit of acne for about a month. I've never struggled with depression ever but this last month I've been struggling so badly with depression and anxiety. I can be happy at times but then can cry for hours at my lowest. Many of my relationships are strained and my emotions are out of control.  I can't get an appointment for another month to remove it but I am seriously looking forward to that day. I though I was going to be that small percentage that this works for but boy was I wrong. Even if it's effectiveness is very high it's seriously not worth how horrible I feel. Do not get this."
"Would not recommend it all. It's awful period. I have 3 weeks on my period and I hate it. Especially weight gain.  I never got my period when started this stupid thing and now I get it for 3 weeks. Getting it removed soon. I'm done with this birth control makes your body go out of whack."
"I currently use Nexplanon but have an appointment next week to talk about having it removed. I got it inserted around April 2017 and started noticing a dip in my mood around Nov/Dec of 2017. I started having trouble sleeping, trouble waking up, had super low energy and motivation, school/work was falling behind etc.I noticed I constantly felt 'on edge' and apprehensive about leaving home. I started breaking down more after that until I eventually quit school. Tried getting help for the anxiety and depression I felt, the passive suicidal thoughts, etc. It's only been the last few months where I started thinking it might be the implant. I've been more sensitive, overthinking, I barely leave my house, I have terrible stomach issues now, and recently intrusive thoughts that don't match my feelings or situation. I'm going to get it out and see if I level out again. I've had experiences with anxiety and depression beforehand but not on this level."
"I love this birth control so much! It's 1:30 am and my friend just texted to tell me how bad her period is. And all I can think is I'm so grateful I haven't had a period in 3 months. That's right, nothing. When I first got this it was the worst. Not even sugar coating it. I felt like I bled for a month straight and was pretty emotional. I also had a tugging sensation at the implant site- I'm assuming scar tissue was growing over it on the inside of my arm. Then one day the bleeding stopped and my mood levelled out. Since then I've had maybe 3 periods in the last year. However, just because this was perfect for me does not mean it's perfect for you. I was miserable on oral contraceptive-spotting all the time, mood swings, etc. This was a life saver!"
"I saw 3 doctors that told me nexplanon doesn't cause "bad thoughts" they said they didn't believe I was having such a rough time, yet if you Google "nexplanon and intrusive thoughts" you will find many people who experienced it.  NO DOCTOR WOULD HELP/TELL ME IT WAS NEXPLANON! I had it removed 24hrs ago. NEVER IN MY ENTIRE "OCD-ANXIETY CAREER" HAVE I EVER EXPERIENCED ANYTHING LIKE I DID ON NEXPLANON. I had such bad intrusive thoughts I thought I was going crazy. If you don't know what an intrusive thought is, it's basically an extremely bad image or thought brought up randomly that you cannot control. I started getting them about 4 months ago really bad. They scare me so bad I avoid anything that triggers them. Bad image flashed in my head about an oven, so now I don't cook unless my husband is home because I'm afraid. Same goes with running errand or normal tasks every day. Since I got it out only a day ago I've noticed a decrease in these thoughts, 1 day!!!!"
"I'm now onto my second implant. The first one worked great and had no troubles apart from the odd spotting a few months in, stopped my period completely which was great. I got my second implant inserted July 2018 and since then I've had on and off headaches that don't clear up with  any medicine and can last up to two weeks at a time! I still don't have my period but my headaches are becoming unbearable! Not sure if it's from this???"
"I had Nexplanon for 4 years total. The first time I got it inserted, I had a great experience. Absolutely no bleeding, for 3 years straight! Minimal side effects as well. After the 3 years were up, I decided to get it again so I got it removed and a new one implanted in my arm. This one for some reason was horrible. For the entire last year I had the second one, I was bleeding non-stop. Not even light bleeding, but medium to heavy bleeding. My doctor prescribed a small amount of estrogen to regulate out the bleeding. This didn't work. I just got out the Nexplanon a couple days ago after a horrible year of it, and I feel so much better. My mood is so much better as well. I don't understand how the first one I had was amazing, and the second one I had was a completely different experience."
"I got the birth control Nexplanon back in 2016 of April after I had my son and now it's 2018 in December.  When I first got it I liked it but I just didn't like how long my cycles lasted. I already had a bit of anxiety before I got it, but now I believe it have gotten worse because I'm more anxious, I can never get enough sleep, I don't like being around people, I overthink all the time, I'm not into sex like I used to be, I'm overweight, my mood swings are horrible I could wake up happy but then later on I could cry about nothing, I feel alone when I'm not. I only like the fact this birth control doesn't get me pregnant but other than that I'm ready to get it taken out.  Its different strokes for different folks though its something I would not recommend."
"I had this form of birth control for about 9 months before it became intolerable. I was spotting for about 6 months, my gyno prescribed menstrual pills that were supposed to regulate my cycle and nothing changed. Getting the Nexplanon removed was painless and I felt more healthy just days after removal . It's very unfortunate because this form of contraception has such a high effectiveness, but it is NOT worth the trouble. I'm now on the pill & my cycles are more regular, mood swings are less common, and acne is contained. I do not! recommend! nexplanon! It has a very narrow range of people that it works with."
"I have had Nexplanon in since October the 26th, 2018. So far it has kept me safe from pregnancy, but the long lasting periods and cramps are becoming horrible. They say I should give it more time, and I suppose I will, due to it's effectiveness. Nexplanon varies from person to person, but my symptoms include a period that lasts about 2 and a half weeks, but it's mostly spotting. Random cramping at anytime, weather it be in the middle of the night or applying for a job in the middle of the day. It isn't picky. Other than that, this works very well. Some girls are afraid of it because they think it'll hurt when it goes in; trust me ladies, the only thing that hurts is the numbing agent and it works immediately. Over all, this product is... okay I guess. If you have a high pain tolerance, then go for it. Good luck out there."
"I have the nexplanon put in  I  after I had my son on February 2017. And I've had a period for a year! I gained 40 lbs. I live a pretty active life with a toddler so it was horrible. I went to see my Dr in July of 2017 she said give it a chance. Well I did and it's now December of 2018 and I got it removed. Never again. I used to have my periods like clock work 7 days every 28 days. But now they last 6 weeks and off for 6 weeks. Anyway I feel a lot better and I have only had it out for 2 hours. Don't do it!!!!!"
"I'm 25 and I've had nexplanon for 3 years now and its been great in the fact I haven't had a period or spotting since I started it. I do have other side effects such as mood swings, acne, zero sex drive, and weight gain. I was put on a mood stabilizer 1.5 years ago which helped a lot with the mood swings. All in all I think its been great but I will be discussing with my doctor whether its healthy or not to go without a period for so long and I will be coming off it for a few months just to have a period and see how my hormones are doing. I do recommend this to others but I suggest you get the depo shot first to see how you react to the hormones in a trial run of 3 months since according to my doctor its has similar hormones as nexplanon."
"""I just had the rod removed last week due to unfavourable side effects.
I had the rod for 6 months and overall I experienced bad mood swings, extreme tiredness, irritability and depression. My periods were irregular (could go about 2 months without a period)
3 months into having the rod my mood was severely effected. I was getting extreme anxiety over going to work/ University so I eventually stopped doing anything other than staying in my bed. My relationships were strained- I didn't want to do anything. Eventually I went to the doctors about it because I was overwhelmed.
My doctor referred me to a counsellor who suggested that my depressive symptoms were due to something physiological - THE ROD! 
So that's why mines removed and honestly I'm thrilled !
I believe it depends on you and your body's reaction to hormones!! -Nexplanon is NOT for me. 
WHOLEHEARTEDLY recommending non-hormonal products (condoms, copper IUD, just don't have sex lol) to anyone over it! X"""
"I got my nexplanon implant put in about a year and a half ago and it was definitely the best decision I've ever made. I have been in a committed relationship for three years now and we were to a point where condoms were “annoying” yet I wasn't consistent with my pill form birth control so that was worrisome. Getting the nexplanon implant allows for you to not worry about if you used a condom or not (for contraception). The overall procedure was quick and easy with very little pain. I had a big bruise on my arm for a couple of weeks but it went away. I stopped getting my period after three months (I get an occasional one day period every three months) and I have not experienced cramps, migraines, or mood swings sing getting it. The only side effect that I have is I have gained about 15-20 pounds over the past year. Other then that, I have had no issues with the Nexplanon and I recommend to anyone who wants an easy form of birth control!"
"This is a WARNING. If you have preexisting anxiety or depression DO NOT GET THIS IMPLANTED. After 2 months of insertion I had been in and out of the hospital for anxiety related issues. At the 3 month mark I began suffering with severe depression and started seeing a therapist. My struggle with depression and anxiety caused me to miss school and lose 20 pounds. I am 18 years old and if I had left the implant in my arm for another year, I truly believe I would not have survived. I had never experienced depression before I had gotten this implant. The depression became so severe I did not eat for days or shower. After I got the implant removed I started to have the motivation to leave the house again without having a panic attack. Now that I got off of it I am slowly recovering. To add the cherry on top, I was also diagnosed with Depersonalization disorder after having this implant inserted, which I am also recovering slowly from."
"I've had nexplanon for the first 3 years I recently just got it back in January of this year 2018. So far I would say it works excellent protecting from getting pregnant but the side effects has been horrible like everyone else I've experience mood swings really bad, I would be happy one minute then sad the next, constant arguing with my fiancé. Lots of break through bleeding, breast tenderness, tons of weight gain :(  oh yeah and the worst acne ever, nausea, etc I would break out all over my face , my back and chest. I know all of this started since I got on the implant I'm taking it out soon the side affects are not worth it."
"I expected side effects but damn. Not only have I bled the entire time I have been on it with the exception of the 3 months in which I combined it with the pill, my hormones have been severely effected. This was a constant battle for control over my emotional reactions. One of the silliest examples is breaking down in Walmart, FOR NO REASON. Yes... uncontrollable tears just because. Not only that but I have had migraines and anxiety for the first time in my life, I'm always tired which I attribute to the constant bleeding) and I am always battling irritability. This birth control also contributed to bouts of depression. I have tried to adapt and get over it but I have to say this is it for me. I will point out that birth control is going to affect everyone differently but the women that I do know who have used this one have experienced the same side effects as me, and my friend who used to work in a clinic says this one was removed most frequently."
"I had this birth control for 3 years. I had it put in when I was 18 and just recently got it removed a few months ago, I am currently 21. Everyone's body reacts to birth controls differently, so this is just my experience. All I can say is that I'm currently looking for a new birth control. While being on this nexplanon, I had periods lasting me over 2 months straight. I also had a lot of brown spotting that would last up to 3 weeks, then there were times I would go 4 months with no period at all. People must be aware that birth control can affect mood swings and your mental health. I found myself very irritable and angry. I also struggled with anxiety prior, but this birth control definitely amplified it to where my anxiety became crippling and almost unbearable. I was also very sluggish through the day, not wanting to get out of bed and found myself sleeping A LOT. I do not see myself going back to this birth control and I will be looking for a new one !"
"Hi, nexplanon has worked pretty well for me, I have gained only a couple pounds in 1 1/2 years since having it. I constantly have unprotected sex... (I know know not good) but I have not got pregnant yet so that's awesome. I am especially happy that I barely get my period. I get my period every other month and for about 3 weeks . It's mostly light. It's weird , but at least I get a huge break from no period. The only side effect that I have experienced with this is really bad acne. It's starting to finally get better after almost 2 years. Overall I am happy with it"
"I had this birth control for almost 3 years. It was awful. I had constant bleeding and gained so much weight. I would bleed for months on end. There were some times when I'd have months of no bleeding at all, only to be followed by months of nonstop bleeding. I couldn't trust my body anymore, and periods of no bleeding felt "too good to be true." I always had to cary a tampon or pantyliner  just in case. It was absolutely awful. I'm glad my boyfriend and I are in a long-distance relationship because I wouldn't have put up with it for as long as I did. I'm getting it removed in a few days and am scared of the process of removing it. I hope it's not painful/scarring. I hope people have better luck with it than I did, because my experience with it was horrific."
"It is not worth it to me & I am going next week to have it removed.  It does work as far as not getting pregnant, but it has caused several issues for myself.  I have always had migraines but not nearly to the point that I have them now.  I have been diagnosed with chronic migraine (having 15-20 migraines a month) & they are intense.  I didn't realize that the drug was doing this until I talked with my Dr. about it & she said it can make migraines worse.  I have bled a lot while on this!  For the 1st 3 months after insertion I bled & my dr. kept telling me it should stop & to try to hold out.  It finally did stop & then now I have just stopped bleeding after being on my period for 5 weeks straight.  I was bleeding so much, my lining in my uterus was extremely thin & I didn't want to bleed to death, especially with already being anemic.  I would suggest trying another BC method or hopefully if you decide to get it done, you won't have the same side effects I did. good luck!"
"I got my nexplanon inserted three years ago.  Honestly it's not worth it. The only pro I have to it is the no period side effect. I gained so much weight in the past three years (roughly 130 pounds) I was always super anxious, I honestly thought I was a junk food addict. I went to drs and etc to stop the constant cravings I had. I always felt tired and bloated and I was not myself. I got it removed the 16th of November. I lost 6 pound without even trying. My boyfriend told me my attitude was so different and I wasn't always so anxious. I'm almost 4 weeks with no junk food and I feel great. I do not recommend this type of birth control. But everyone is different. Hope my review helps."
"I have had Nexplanon for about 5 months now. I got it in July. Everything with it has been great except I've been nauseous on and off. I have had my period everyday so far with a couple of days here and there that I don't. I would suggest though that this is the best option for birth control.  Everybody's body is different though so don't stop yourself from getting it just because you've read a few bad reviews. If you get it and you hate it then get it taken out. I'm going to leave mine in unless the side effects get worse."
"I had this in for almost a year. Although it kept me from getting pregnant and having a heavy period it ruined my mental health. I didn't really make the connection to my birth control (I just thought I was having a hard year) until my family bought it up. After I got this birth control I became a completely different person and my relationship actually ended because of all the fights I was picking and my mood swings. I got really horrible depression and it changed my bubbly personality. Once I got it out I was able to bounce back and be my old self. I'm sure this drug works for some people but it made me super emotional."
"I'm a 21 yrs old. Nexplanon was inserted March 2016. Debating whether I should go through this again or try an IUD, although the reviews for IUDs are worrisome. Anywho, Nexplanon has kept me preggo free the entire time. The side effects are tough to get over. The first year and a half was horrible. I went through the worst depression/manic mood swings I have ever experience. I would be happy one moment then raging anger and sad the next, it can be testing for relationships. I never experienced weight gain but a little over a year into it I noticed hair falling our. Scary clumps of hair will just come out when I brush my hair. My diet never changed and exercised regularly. Never experienced acne nor cramps. What I have been experiencing is irregular periods. I will get one or two periods lasting 5-7 days each month or no periods at all for a month. The flow is also irregular, sometimes heavy sometimes super light.  It's pretty effective at preventing babies though."
"I got nexplanon inserted in early March, I'm 20 years old as I write this and it is December. When I tell you that this birth control is making me lose my mind I'm not over exaggerating. My mood swings are ridiculous and I will cry out of no where for at least thirty minutes at a time. My depression has gotten so much worse that it's hard for me to get out of the bed and it has never been this bad until I had this inserted in my arm. I'm getting it removed in two weeks and I just want it out! My libido has dropped I never feel in the mood even though I just recently got engaged."
"I had nexplanon for a little under two years. At first, at 16, I loved it. It took a lot of pressure off of me, because teen pregnancy is like a curse in my family. I experienced little side effects, mostly just small random periods that lasted about three days. For about a year after the first three months I received no periods. Around six months after the implantation I had a check up, suggested by my doctor. I found out I had gained 15 pounds, which was a lot for me. Since then I have went from 175 lbs to 210. I have had depression and anxiety for most of my childhood and adolescence, but the past two years have been the worst. I experience bouts of sadness that force me to stay in bed for days. I have at least one extreme migraine once a month. Daily I feel like a different person. Sluggish, overweight, disgusting, sad.  I am going to the doctor to get it removed tomorrow morning and I do not plan on getting any type of prescription birth control for the rest of my life."
"I got my nexplanon inserted October of 2016 I've had it for two years now. the first six months were heaven no period and no pregnancy scare. My side affects started off bearable dizziness, shaky, nausea, spotting etc. After about a year it started getting worse I went a week straight depressed I would cry randomly without a reason. After that went away I was fine for about 2 months.  Now I'm at a point where I overthink constantly to the point where I can't even keep up with my thoughts.  I have anxiety attacks I'm always depressed I've gained weight. I even started doubting my relationship and neglecting my partner because of the over thinking. My emotions sky rocketed and I'm glad to say that I'm taking it out this week. I wouldn't recommend any long term BC because no matter how great not getting a period is,  out bodies don't liked to be mucked around with.  Also the side affects just took a toll on my everyday life and I can't take it anymore."
"With my experience, I will warn people of what it can do. My body didn't have a good reaction. At first my body thought I was pregnant and I gained 20 pounds in a month, then at the end of the month I was vomiting for 10 hours and was sent to the ER. No one knew what was wrong. My heart rate was 260 when I walked in. I'm 20 years old I had to stay the night. I had chest pains and nothing was wrong with me. Labs were clear, CAT scan was clear, I was sent home. I couldn't pick up my child, I was short of breath, I couldn't walk up the stairs without feeling like something was sitting on my chest and I couldn't breath. Medical professionals didn't think to ask about my birth control, so I kept telling them but “this is something different” so at my follow up appointment I got it out. As soon as I got the birth control taken out I could breath again. It had flooded my body with hormones; but hey, I wasn't pregnant. I mean my period lasted 3 weeks out of the month but I wasn't pregnant"
"I have had the nexplanon since June 2016 and will be expired on June 2019. I will say I have never had a regular period since I have been on this type of birth control. It's quite upsetting that I'll never know when my period is coming or leaving. I either have a very small amount of brown blood for 3 days or as long as 2 weeks or a very sporadic and annoying (small and large) amounts of blood (red, brown, clumpy) for 2-3 weeks which destroy every pair of panties I have. I am 25 & I am just ready for it to be out of me ASAP due to the cost of organic tampons and pads I run through every month since I realized that all the other brands make my insides itch. I have tried everything from pills (too forgetful), depo shot (my fav), nuva ring (felt it was unsanitary), IUD (ultimate fail & worst pain & horrible reviews when having sex), to the nexplanon & I'm over it in totality."
"I've had the implant for almost 10 months and the only side effects I've experienced are spotting and not having a period, haven't had one in 8 months which has been great :) . I had one normal period the same month I got the implant it lasts 7 days which is normal for me. I would recommend this birth control but remember birth control does affect everyone differently"
"It's been over a month since I got nexplanon. I've been on the pill and the shot. Both were a negative. I decided to try another birth control to help ease my period cramps and heavy flow. I chose Nexplanon. And so far, it's pretty convenient. A 3 year birth control that is painlessly inserted in the arm. The only “uncomfortable” part is the numbing agent administered. I got it on the week that I was due for my period and never got my period that week. But less than a month later I did get it. It lasted for almost 3 weeks. Cramps were at times unbearable and my flow was heavy. I do have mood swings here and there, not necessarily any depression. And the constant, random feeling of nausea. But my libido has actually improved. Greatly! The doctor and nurses did inform me of the side effects I'll have to deal with before the birth control normalize everything. To just be patient. So the convenience is worth the wait. Not everyone will have these side effects, so unless you try, you won't know."
"I had the nexplannon implant for almost 9 months . It did it's job by preventing pregnancy but the side effects were to much for me . Depression was by far the worst . I've never had problems with being depressed but this implant changed my entire mental state at times and I did not like that. I felt like I had no control over my emotions . After a few months my periods stopped but I still bled at random times, sometimes I had very light bleeding for weeks which was annoying. I had loss of appetite most of the time which caused me to lose 15lbs . The implant is very convenient because you don't have to remember to take a pill everyday and I noticed my acne was reduced greatly but for me the cons outweighed the pros . Depression , weight loss , and random bleeding are the three reasons I decided this birth control wasn't right for me ."
"I was super excited to get this put in after having my second child because I have always been on the pill and hated it. I have had the nexplanon in for 3 months and I have been so severely depressed that I had it taken out this morning. I have been in such a dark place for the last several months between that, the extreme mood swings, and bleeding CONSTANTLY I can say I would never recommend this product to anyone. SO TERRIBLE! If you already have depression or other mental health issues I definitely would not have this put in."
"I am very unhappy with my Nexplanon for its side effects but am giving it a 5 because I haven't become pregnant, and it's very easy to use (just needs inserted by a doctor, lasts a long time, don't have to remember to take pills, etc.).  I had never been on any type of birth control before. I first tried to get an IUD, but the doctor couldn't get it in, so I had Nexplanon inserted at the end of May 2018 and all was well until the end of that June. I began bleeding (lightly, but still have to use pads and tampons) and haven't stopped yet, even though it is now the end of November. Every time I call my doctor to see if there's anything they can do, they say this is a "normal side effect". My husband doesn't mind, but I constantly feel gross and my sexual drive has plummeted. There have only been two weeks (NOT consecutively) where it's been light enough that I didn't need to use a pantyliner. I'm wondering when and if I'll ever feel normal again."
"I have had the implant for 9 months now. Since I got the implant I have had CRAZY mood swings, Migraines, and severe cramping. Even my depression medications stopped working since I got the implant. At first the Dr said wait it will smooth out. Just got worse. For the past 3 months I have been very nauseous as well as cramping to the point I live off Midol, and migraines that are so bad I stay in bed a lot. This was NOT the medication for me. Time for the removal in 3 weeks. Can't wait to be back to normal.  I do not suggest this to anyone I know. Me, my older and younger sister all had issues to the point of removal before a year."
"Horrible birth control. Had massive issues after the first year. I started having seizures that  I didn't have before. Mood swings and life in general was a struggle. I now have to be check by a neurologist every 6 months because of how my body reacted to this birth control. Never again and I always tell my friends to stay clear of this form of birth control."
"Sure this form of birth control will stop you from getting pregnant, but it will also stop your sex drive altogether. Not only that, but I have had severe depression since the implant which is worse than normal. It is a stressful, mind-changing, and terrible form of birth control. Only good thing is you won't get a baby, but sex isn't even enjoyable on it. it's just terrible I do not recommend."
"I freaking love it. The only reason I'm giving it a 9 out of 10 is the first two months. The first week or so I was quite weepy, and the first 2 months I did have an annoying amount of spotting. Since getting used to it, I have had zero periods or spotting. I thought that would make me nervous, because I typically get nervous when I miss my period, BUT knowing how effective it is has massively reduced my anxiety about accidentally becoming pregnant."
"Nexplanon is THE WORST. I got it inserted about a year ago and at first experienced consistent spotting for about three months. My GYN told me that this was normal and that I should wait until six months to have it removed so that my body regulated. My periods became so irregular that I would be on my period for a month and then have nothing for two months. Worst of all was the crippling anxiety and depression I experienced from this BC. I didn't feel like myself, would have dark thoughts, panic attacks daily, and even resorted to going to therapy regularly and being placed on anti-depressants. After a year of awfulness, I'm finally getting this removed in two weeks to get my life back hopefully!"
"It's good for preventing pregnancy, but it caused my depression which my family has a history of so I would not recommend because of that and I also got arm pain long after it was inserted. It wasn't sore it was like a stabbing pain the occurred randomly"
"I actually love the nexplanon implant and I've tried just about everything else including pills, IUD, and depo shot. I don't have to worry about taking a pill on time or changing a nuva ring at all. Like the IUD once the implant as been inserted you don't have to do anything with it for 3 years. It had not caused any weight gain and I've been on it since March (almost 10 months). In the beginning I experienced some moderate cramping that ibuprofen took care of. One complaint I did have was that I started my period about two weeks after having it placed in my arm and the period lasted twice as long as a normal cycle and then I continued light spotting for nearly 8 weeks. The spotting was super light, but enough to get on my nerves. I had two slightly heavier than normal periods and then stopped getting one altogether the last 2-3 months. I have however experienced some mild cramping occasionally. I am really glad I stuck out those first few months of annoying spotting."
"I had the implant put in December 2017, I am writing this comment in November of 2018. I have not had a regular or predictable period since I had the implant put in. As a birth control, it is effective. My partner and I have sex w/o condoms, I can tell you I have not gotten pregnant. However, the side effects, for me, have been to overwhelming for me and I'm getting the implant removed because of this. I'm constantly nauseous, moody, irritable, depressed, uninterested, and experience constant headaches that turn into migraines at least once a week. That's the least. As I write this comment I have a huge headache and I'm nauseous."
"I got nexplanon inserterted in March, and since then I haven't gotten a single period which is nice, but I have gained 45 pounds since I have started. Getting it removed today"
"I got the Nexplanon back in the beginning of March 2018 during my period. Insertion was quick and easy. My next period was normal, then shortly after, I bleed for weeks straight. Then the periods stopped. Now I'll go a month or so with no bleeding, to light to medium bleeding for a few weeks, then back to a month or so of nothing. The hormones were the worst in the first couple of months and every now and then, the insertion site feels uncomfortable, but no pain. About six months in, I started to get HORRIBLE acne and I've never had bad skin, so I hateeee that. I get more frequent headaches too. Other than headaches, the acne and random bleeding, I'll live. I'm not pregnant and trust me, I'm fertile lol so it's great at that part!"
"My Nexplanon experiences had been horrible so far. I have had it in for a little over a month and and my mood swings are terrible. I have a history of anxiety and depression and it's gotten worse it hasn't been this bad since middle school. Horrible dark thoughts and just constant crying everyday then two minutes later I'm fine. It has really effected my relationship with my partner to the point of having severe separation anxiety It was never like this before. I am really considering taking it out but it's so frustrating since the reason I started this birth control was because I thought the pill was worsening my depression. I don't want to take it out and look for another alternative because I'm back at square one."
"I have been on Nexplanon for a year and a half. I am rating this drug a 5 for its effectiveness and convenience because 1.) I am not pregnant and 2.) You do not have to remember to take a pill. That being said, everyone is different in how this drug affects you. For me, I have gotten random and annoying spotting ranging from a few days to weeks, random and heavier periods, very bad cramping that lasts my whole period (I never experienced this off of birth control), dizziness and lightheadedness, heart palpitations (I got these more when I first got Nexplanon but they have since gone away), headaches, mood swings beyond my control (both highs and lows), terrible dryness that makes sex somewhat painful, awkward and honestly kills the mood and extremely low/non-existent libido. I have also gained a lot of weight which I HATE!! I am going for a consult in a few weeks to discuss other options for myself."
"I've been on this for 4 years.  Not prego and hardly any side effects except melasma.  No periods, no weight gain, has helped my depression bc having periods causes severe mental anguish and since this has eliminated my periods, I am better.  Everyone is different.  I actually was able to lose weight and my depression isn't as bad.  This may have saved me from committing suicide...no joke."
"I got the nexplanon when I was 22, after being on the pill (loestrin 24) for several years. The implanting of the nexplanon was fine, didn't hurt at all. Afterwards there was no pain; HOWEVER....I was on my period for 2 months....After 2 months I couldn't take it any more so I had my doctor remove it and I went back on the pill."
"I did enjoy not having to remember to take anything.  I got nexplanon inserted when I was 16 years old and now I am 19 and got it removed last week. I weighed about 125-130 when I first got it and now I am up to 173. With that being said, prior to this, I never had a problem with my weight. When I realized that I was gaining weight, I changed my eating habits and started working out. I even tried a few weight loss supplements. Nothing helped! I couldn't drop one pound. I couldn't get the weight off for anything and like I said, never had a problem with weight before.This bar also made my skin breakout something terrible and I experienced mood swings.  At first I blamed all of these symptoms on life itself. Because I did have it for almost 3 years and within those years, I transitioned between high-school to college etc. But the more I look back, the more I realize that the birth control had something to do with it."
"I wish I had gotten this birth control years ago! I was paying about $20 a month for the pill and with this I paid nothing and it'll cover me for 3 years! As far as side effects I have nothing to complain about! I mean sometimes I have headaches but who is to say it's from the birth control. I've had a little bit of spotting but nothing that I wasn't having with the pill too. I just love not having to think about taking a pill, and this is the most effective form of birth control on the market so it's a win win! I think if you want to try it you should cause it could be worth it!"
"I'm 19 years old and I have been on Nexplanon for 6 months now. It was absolutely amazing for my boyfriend and I at first because it is close to 100% effective at preventing pregnancy and we almost never pulled out. I also never experienced weight gain. However, after a few weeks, my period was completely out of whack. I would bleed/spot for weeks at a time one minute then not have anything for a month or two after which threw me off guard. Not mention it caused me to have anxiety and depression almost immediately which I never had issues with in the past. I am always sad and have emotional breakdowns regularly. At this point, I lost my sex drive completely which is causing issues in my relationship. I'm having it removed at the end of the month. It's different for everyone but sadly the small pro's like 100% effective for 3-5 years at a time does not outweigh the increase in acne, extremely low sex drive, depression/mood swings, and month-long periods/spotting"
"This was the most horrible thing I have done to my body...weight gain was probably around 10-15 pounds, the acne and OIL increased by 10000x I cannot believe how much oil was seeping out of my pores. And lastly, I spotted for almost 1 year straight there was probably a few times where I had no spotting. It was terrible it would ruin my underwear and sex life and I had to have a constant tampon in because I didn't know when it would increase or decrease. It works as a birth control but the side effects are NOT WORTH IT AT ALL!!! I understand it may be fine for some people but I would never recommend this to anyone. It wasn't worth the side effects I wish I never got it. Thankful I have the Paragard IUD now."
"I've have almost had the nexplanon in for 2 years now I got it at my 6 week check up after having my son. Well everything was going great with it the first year and all of a sudden I start to notice that I can't have anyone ask me a single question without wanting to shut myself in and not talk to anyone. It got bad enough to the point where I decided to go to the doctor to see what was going on and as it seems I got severe anxiety so now I have to be on meds everyday if not if I stop taking them I right away go back to being not myself. My periods are mostly spotting but they do last around 2-3 weeks which sucks! I have also gained 30+ lbs since getting it and I have not changed diets ever since before I got pregnant. And now I CAN NOT wait to get this thing taken out of me!! I gave it 4 stars because it does a great job of keeping you safe but for the side effects definitely not worth it!"
"The first implant was ok. I bled for 14 weeks total to start. It stopped and I went 2 years period free. No symptoms. The last year of the first implant I got a period for every time I got hit with an abundance of stress. It creeped me out the first couple of times. After three years I got the second nexplanon placed. I gained a  ton of weight, my face is broken out and I have horrid period symptoms that last weeks with maybe two days of normalcy in between. Sore breasts, sensitive everything, mood swings, irritable 24/7 cramps bloating etc add on the couple of bouts of morning sickness. And the constant spotting. For instance I had a period in the beginning of October. Stopped for a week and started up again the 18th of October. The day before my wedding. Bled another 5 to 7 days. Stopped. November 11th and I'm bleeding again. Zero sex drive, horrid anxiety. Like nothing I've ever experienced. Migraines. Stomach issues, Cystic acne phantom aches and pains, extreme exhaustion"
"I've been on nexplanon for over three years. I had my first nexplanon inserted 8 weeks after I had my second daughter. I will admit after my first Nexplanon was implanted I had on and off bleeding for months. My doctor told me this could happen. After a few months of the spotting all the time (yes it was a pain), my body adjusted and I was fine. My periods are irregular (they always have been) but my side effects are none existent. I didn't gain weight at all. I don't have bad acne or pimples. Every once in awhile I'll get cramping but that's it. My periods are light and don't last very long. I've been on birth control (other than when I was pregnant) for 13 years and I can honestly say this has been the best for me. I don't have to worry about missing a pill or changing a ring. Or crazy side effects from high levels of hormones."
"I did not get pregnant while on nexplanon, so it was effective as birth control. I gained 55 pounds in 11 months. I experienced almost constant headaches and extreme fatigue. My mood swings were so extreme I asked to be put on antidepressants, which were ineffective. I would never get this form of birth control ever again."
"""Nexplanon made me gain 30 pounds and get incredibly moody, angry and I lost many friendships and a relationship over this. I wish it worked and it may work for you - just monitor your moods and if you're worried about weight gain, monitor that too. Once I got it taken out, I basically couldn't eat for about 3 months without feeling like I am going to throw up
NOT SAYING THIS IS HOW IT WILL BE FOR EVERYONE, just be cautious"""
"I never got pregnant while on this so that's the only reason I'm not giving it a 1. This birth control made me feel so incredibly sick all the time and it gave me terrible terrible mood swings. I would be going about my day and then randomly feel intensely sad or angry for no reason. I also started having panic attacks that were so bad I literally could not function. I never had panic attacks before and my life is pretty great and I didn't have anything else to cause the anxiety so I know it was the hormones from this implant. Totally not worth it!!!!! This might work for some women but I definitely do not recommend. I only lasted a couple months with this implant because the panic attacks were too intense for me to enjoy my day to day life."
"I liked it because it is convenient. However, my periods were awful and random. I stopped using this birth control because of my recent horrible experience of removing it. I went to the same place  where I had it put it in 3 years prior and the first doctor couldn't find it. So she called in a second doctor but she was having a hard time too, so she called in her doctor friend and they as a team tried getting it out for 30 plus minutes of cutting, and pulling and stretching. Until they decided to stop and say I needed to go to a surgeon to have it removed because they were afraid of cutting an  artery & I was already really bruised up. I had to completely heal first so that took a few weeks. Went to the surgeon: Had the procedure done and about an hour later he got it out, with the help of an ultra sound and stitches I was as good as new :) needles to say, I wouldn't get this again! The other two times I didn't have problems. There's more details to the story but too much to write."
"I got nexplanon so that I wouldn't have to worry about birth control while I completed a year of study abroad in Germany. I've had the implant for about two and a half months or so. The implant isn't awful. The insertion was simple and easy and for the first week or two everything was great, but now I've noticed a lot of personal changes involving my mental health. I'm depressed a lot. I cry all the time, sometimes for no reason. It's really killed my self confidence and I'm looking into having it removed. I've never been so depressed in my entire life. Birth control wise it's great, health wise I can not recommend."
"I've been using NEXPLANON  for about two years now. I thought it would be easier than remembering to take a pill every day, or going all the way to the doctor to get a shot every month, but this was a huge mistake. Granted I haven't gotten pregnant, but I bleed for months at a time, and have crippling pains: mensural cramps, and sharp pain during intercourse. Along side of severe depression and dark thoughts, I get 24 hour migraines and aggressive mood swings. It's nearly impossible to lose weight, and acne is the worst. I wouldn't recommend this product, and I look forward to getting it out soon."
"I had the worst experience possible with this contraceptive. The first day it was implanted I suffered horrible pains in my uterus. I never had period pains until I got this implanted. The following side effects were terrible. First, I noticed that my eyelashes began falling out. I then saw that red dots started to appear all over my feet, which my doctor diagnosed as petechiae dermatitis. I had minor acne but it soon became severe. I had never broke out with cysts on my face ever and it seemed as if my entire face was covered. I am very petite so my weight range is very lower than it should be. This pill made me lose my appetite which made me lose even more weight causing me to look and feel unhealthy.  I became depressed not only because of what was happening physically to my body but I felt depressed for no reason because of this pill. The only thing it was good for was preventing pregnancy."
"This was the first birth control I got and it ruined my life. Before nexplanon I was healthy, no allergies, nothing. My dr recommended it and in the 1st few days I was cramping and spotting. The cramping got worse and the spotting turned into a month long period. I went back after a month or so to get it removed and my dr told me it was normal and I needed to get used to it. I decided to wait, and I would bleed for 2-3 wks at a time, mood swings, depressed, stomach pain 24/7, and gained 15 lbs the first 4 months. 6 months later I got it removed but I'm still in constant pain. It's been 4 yrs and I've been to the ER countless times, ovarian cyst surgery, and I'm now lactose intolerant, have oral allergy syndrome, endometriosis, and chronic abdominal wall pain. I can barely eat anything w/out having some sort of reaction/stomach pain, and I've had ultrasounds/CT/endoscopy/h.pylori tests, and all my doctors can tell me is to “take Tylenol 3 times a day” to manage the pain."
"I got the Nexplanon last November after being on the Depo Provera shot for 2 years (which is also progestin) and I did have spotting for the first month or so but after that it has been perfect and I've had no side effects whatsoever besides occasional spotting for a few days every few months (no periods) and have recommended it to all my friends, although I do know some friends had prolonged spotting so I would be aware of that. I had light periods that lasted around 2 weeks when I was off birth control so this method has been my favorite compared to the pills and shots I have had before."
"I had the implant for a little over a year, and I began to gain weight so fast, I put on 60 pounds, didn't change my eating habits, or anything. I am getting my implant out today, because I can not lose any weight, and I just keep gaining. As a birth control it works GREAT , but the side effects sucks !"
"I had the Nexplanon for a year and a half and I wasn't aware of the fact that I wouldn't have my periods after its insertion. I had it removed yesterday. I agree that Nexplanon is very effective in preventing pregnancy. However, I wouldn't recommend it because of its impact on the body. I had horrible bleeding after the insertion for about 4-5 months continuously and mood swings that wasn't a good sign. After couple of months, my periods stopped and I only have spotting for few days in between and I never know when this spotting will stop.. It's like it would continue for 2-3 weeks of spotting which is not a big deal but kind of irritating. Since, our body is designed to have normal cycle of periods, I wouldn't recommend for anything that will stop this which might lead to some fertility issues in future.. we never know.. Thats's my opinion.. !"
"""Worse decision I ever made.
I was given the Implant following an abortion even though I had a brief history of depression.
I bled constantly for the first 9 months. I took a job abroad that involved riding 2-3 horses a day, using tampons constantly I got an infection. I lost my confidence, lost my energy and  became depressed and suicidal. I wanted to cut it out of my arm. I came home to the UK and couldn't find anyone to have it removed. I had zero understanding from a local GP - who told me I was making it up the issues. 
In 1 year I have put on a stone. I can't cope with work stress & funnily enough with the constant bleeding & mood swings I can't hold a relationship or have any sex life. 
I have tried for 6 months to get the damn thing removed. Medical professionals using it do not value mental health or physical sides effects as a problem. 
Change needs to happen."""
"I got the Nexplanon 7 months ago. I bled the first 5 months almost non stop. A few days in between bleeding I spotted a little bit. Ruined every pair of underwear I owned. Now I have anxiety so bad I've had to leave work. I have depression & really dark thoughts it's terrifying. Everyone is different but I would not recommend it. Id rather get pregnant then be a complete psycho everyday. I have zero patience & very irritable!"
"I had the nexplanon for over a year.. at the beginning everything was fine light periods but months later I started having my period 2 or 3 times a month I was literally on my period all the time plus my arm started to hurt like a burning discomfort so I decided to get it removed.  My doctor had a hard time getting it out. My sister had it also and she had it removed for the same reasons..Again people's bodies react different so I'm just talking about my experience. It didn't work for me but might work for someone else."
"So as birth control does pretty well. But I have had it for about 3 months now and I hate it! I have been on my period the entire freaking time. My mood swings from really happy to crying for no reason. Which isn't helpful with a newborn. I got it first so I wouldn't have to worry about the pill. But I'm taking this out and going back on the pill. But not only that but it has plummeted my sex drive, which was already low. And I don't get as "wet" anymore and I don't want to have sex (which puts stress on my relationship) so honestly if you are thinking about getting this. Don't!"
"I had the nexplanon put in in May 2018 and almost immediately my mood swings were through the roof and I gained almost 30 pounds in the couple months I had it. I was crying over everything, I was angry over nothing, and I started to get depressed. The weight gain made my self esteem drop but I was trying to be patient and it was hard. I figured it was the hormones and it'll pass but then I started my period. I was on my period for a month and a half STRAIGHT and it was very heavy. I was trying to be patient but as the depression worsened and the period didn't stop, I got very frustrated and had it removed. About 6 months after removal, my metabolism is still slow and the weight is barely starting to go away. The depression lightened almost immediately after removal. For some women this birth control method works wonders but for me, it just made me miserable and hate what it did to my body."
"I got the nexplanon a month after my daughter was born, I hated it but everyone's body is different. My friend didn't bleed for a whole year and a half, as for me I bled everyday for about 6 months. Sometimes I would just spot but still, it was everyday. It was gross and it stopped for a month then again a 2 month period, and so on. My daughter is now 16 months so I've been going through this cycle for a while & Monday I'm getting it taken out. I've lost weight :/ I don't get much of an appetite SOME days, but I'm hoping the removal is as easy as the insertion. It was a very easy process, no more than 3 minutes. My friend likes this one but I don't, I wish it could've worked for me :( I don't want the IUD it scares me."
"I love Nexplanon! I been on it for 5 years. Periods have been normal. There was a 6 month of no period which for me was great.Then went back to regular monthly periods. I've been on birth control for 12 years this has been my fav."
"Drove me insane & made me super moody & I was always spotting. It was in it for 19 months & it is very much effective."
"""I had the Nexplanon inserted three years ago in 2015. First the irregular bleeding was horrible. I bled for 6 months non stop. After 6 months, my periods regulated. Then weight gain was out of control. With no diet changes after getting the nexplanon, I gained 50+ pounds and could not get it off with exercise or diet changes. 
I went in July of 2018 to have it removed and reinserted. It took them 45 minutes to remove it because it had become incapsulated in muscle tissue. They had to cut away muscle tissue and yank it out, which caused horrible bruising, bleeding and a scar on my arm.
 Shortly after having the new one inserted, I experienced debilitating fatigue, horrible mood swings and depression, migraines, nausea, wiped out sex drive, light headedness and even gained an additional 10 pounds in 3 months. It has caused a huge strain on my parenting, my marriage and my professional life.
I finally got the implant removed this morning. Definitely would not recommend."""
"I decided to get the NEXPLANON implant because the “good for three” years thing sounded great to considering I wouldn't have to remember taking a pill everyday. Plus, my gynecologist told me I shouldn't have a period after the first 6 months with choosing the NEXPLANON. So of course this type of birth control sounded extremely reasonable for me! However, I've had this implant in for a year and 2 months now and I'm very disappointed. I am still having periods and not just any period, I'm talking 2-3 MONTH PERIODS. Honestly, they would probably even last longer but my gynecologist has been prescribing me a pill form of birth control to get my periods back on track. So now I'm on two different types of birth control. Also, my mood swings are terrible. I do not and never will recommend this form of birth control to anyone."
"I am at my third year mark with this BC and I must say it has caused me pure hell. The only reason I got it was to hopefully stop my periods but that didn't happen for me  I know every woman is different but everyone I talked to that had it said they didn't get a period but for me on the other hand I had one almost every other week and they last for about 2 weeks at a time. My mood has been all over the place and the fact that I'm already going through a lot doesn't help. I am currently going on day 23 of a period and my body is beginning to hurt. I am calling the doctor today when I get off from work to have them remove it. As a BC it is amazing I didn't get pregnant or anything of that nature but the side effects are horrible."
"I initially got the nexplanon because my gynecologist recommended it. I have endometriosis so I previously tried various pill birth controls but they all had terrible side effects like nausea. The insertion wasn't painful. The only thing that stung was the lidocaine injection. Since then, I had the implant for almost two years and I've experienced nothing but bleeding and the worsening of my pain. I don't think its compatible with my body at all so I made an appointment with my doctor to get it removed soon."
"Nexplanon is a really good birth control choice. It's hard to keep in mind that birth control DOES NOT work the same way for everyone when you read negative comments. The best way to figure out if it's for you is to read up on it and give it a try if you think it's a good fit. When I first got it inserted I didn't have a period for 6 months, then it came randomly one day. Now I have a period irregularly but still about once a month (which is a stated side effect if you read up on it). If you choose to get it keep it in for at least a year to see if undesirable side effects subside. I didn't gain weight, don't have mood swings. I chose Nexplanon because I don't have to take a pill everyday and because the idea of having an IUD where I need to still check placement and it could potentially cause fertility problems (which is not common but still possible) just turned me off and freaked me out. Nexplanon is low maintenance, and if you don't like it have it taken out and try another method."
"I originally had Nexplanon inserted when I was 16 (I'm now 21). My first one was fine, or so I thought. By my second one the symptoms were very obvious. I had horrible acne (and I never had more than 1 pimple at a time as a teen), 20+ lbs of gained weight and awful mood swings and depression. I already have bipolar disorder so these mood swings were dangerous for me but tbh it was the acne that did it for me, it's never been this bad. I just had it taken out two days ago and I already feel better. I gave it 5 stars because in 5 years I didn't get pregnant so it definitely works"
"I got the implant about three months ago, and I have loved this birth control so far. There's something to be said for the convenience of it, because it's a great feeling to know I'm covered for the next three years. I haven't experienced any of the bad side effects, maybe a little spotting my first two months. I was previously on depo provera which always had me starving (I gained 30 pounds over the course of two years), but I've actually lost 20 pounds since I started nexplanon. I would recommend it to anyone who's looking for a one and done birth control. Not sure why there's so many negative reviews out there, I've been really impressed by it."
"Nexplanon has improved my quality of life drastically. I used to have severe vomiting and cramps every month but now thanks to this product I don't get a cycle at all. I'm so released not to have to worry about putting my life on hold every month.  I have no side effects and could not ask for a better product! I would recommend it to anyone who doesn't not want to deal with having their cycle"
"My experience on this birth control was 50/50. It is great at preventing pregnancy. I never gained that much weight on this birth control. When I first got on it I had bad mood swings and weird irregular light periods that lasted 2 weeks at a time. The 2nd year was a complete breeze though I never had mood swings, I stayed at the same weight, I had short light periods once a month. Unfortunately since my third year started on this birth control. I have been having mood swings again, way too many headaches, I have been breaking out and I never broke out my entire life. I also I been on the longest period of my life and I am over it."
"I got my first Nexplanon 3 years ago and loved it! No pregnancy and no period for three years! I just had mine removed today and replaced with a new one."
"Made my period last for 2 months straight several times.  I had it in for 2 years - horrible at first but highly effective"
"I got nexplanon after I had my son so I was still bleeding when it was inserted and the blood NEVER stopped. I bled for months before going to the doctor and even then that didn't really help. My periods were very irregular just like everyone else's. I had one last from thanksgiving to New Years. It ruined my relationship cause my boyfriend didn't believe I was always on my period and that's expensive ALWAYS BEING ON YOUR PERIOD. I had terrible mood swings was always crying a lot. I couldn't loose weight to save my life and as soon as I got it taken out (I was on it for the entire 3 years minus a few months) I lost all of my baby weight within a month without changing my diet. I'm now having troubles getting pregnant and I don't know if this bc is the cause of my fertility issues but it's been 2 yrs since it's removal and my periods are just now becoming more regulated"
"I think it took my body a year to fully acclimate to Nexplanon. I'd previously taken oral contraceptives, and this just seemed way easier. The first few months on Nexplanon I was the most irritable I've ever been in my life. I heavily debated getting it removed during that time. I started out not having a period at all, which developed into spotting constantly, and a year in it started to level out and have a seemingly normal cycle (I've never had a normal cycle in my life). If this continues (more than the few months it has), I think the switch will have been worth it."
"My daughter (19) got this in because she was terrible at remembering to take her pills. She got the rod inserted and THIS was a HUGE mistake. We began to see our normally happy girl become weepy and sad over nothing. She went off to college and the sadness increased which led to anxiety/depression. She is  a sophomore at a top university and could not do the work she was so sad. The year prior she did extremely well. She also withdrew socially (she is in a sorority and is quite social). We had to withdraw her from school for the quarter because she was behind and mentally incapable of doing anything. We had the rod from hell removed and the crying has already ceased. We are hoping she recovers quickly and can head back to school next quarter. This implant was the worst!"
"I first got nexplanon one month after the giving birth (July 2014) I wasn't good on the pill so I thought this BC would be great! The 4 years of having it were fine. Period was normal, no mood swings , I even loss weight while on it. Loved how effective it was! Little did I know when switching it out for a new one it would make me feel a lot different.  I jus replaced mine in September 2018. Let me tell you that I am a very happy person. My life is wonderful . I have never experienced depression and anxiety before an this is the worst experience I ever had within this last month. I almost felt as if I was losing my mind! Scary I know..  I was jus so confused as to why I was feeling this way because I had it in 4 years . I think this new one that I got jus wasn't going right . I decided to take it out last week an as of taking it out I still kinda feel the same but a little better than when I had it in. PLS LADIES DO NOT GET!"
"I had my implant inserted after I had my 2 nd child and I've had it for 3 years. I was bleeding all the time so I went to the GP and she gave me some pills to stop bleeding. It worked but you have to remember about taking them as well so whats the point in having an implant? I was tired all the time, had cramps in my breast and I wasn't loosing any weight after having my baby. I didn't had a problem with losing any after my first one. After 3 years I had it changed and obviously I wasn't a fresh mum any more but I was still feeling very tired, had major bleeding, headache everyday and still putting on weight so obviously I realised that the symptoms I've been having wasn't because I was a new mum but they were side effects from the implant. I lost my libido as well ;( after a month of having new implant I'm taking it out. I can't handle it anymore. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone."
"I only had Nexplanon in my arm for 4 months got it removed today. I had NEVER experienced depression and really dark thoughts in my life until I got it inserted into my arm. I do not recommend this birth control. Hopefully the removal will be my solution."
"I'm going in year 2 using the nexplanon..It is definitely effective against pregnancy. The first insertion wasn't painful but the bruise after was HUGE. I haven't noticed anything different about my mood.. Haven't had a period while on it. I do think I have gained more weight than normal but I can deal with that. No acne, no bleeding, no unusual mood swings... I LOVE IT! I rated a 9 because of the weight gain, but again...it's the increase of appetite that I struggle fighting."
"This is an extremely effect form of birth control which was amazing at first, but within the first 2 weeks of insertion, I gained about 10lbs,  and I started breaking out with acne. So I thought I'd give it some time and then the spotting started, and it hasn't stopped since. I have been on Nexplanon for about 4 months but now I'm having it removed because I'm basically on my period 24/7."
"I've been on Nexplanon since 16 yo (currently 24) & just got it taken out. I loved it because I didn't have to worry about taking a pill every day & it was really affective. I had nonstop spotting for a year, but it was light & didn't stop my sexual activities. After the first year, I got a period every few months or less. However, I had it taken out recently because I realized it contributed to my anxiety & moodiness. I was overly emotional, but I never thought it could be because of my birth control. I got it at 16 (during puberty) so there wasn't an extreme change from how I was feeling then. However, over time, I realized that my anxiety correlated with my random periods. My doc said some women can have too much estrogen which can cause anxiety & mood swings. I had the implant removed and started feeling better. What a shame, I loved having no periods & for it to work so well as a BC."
"I absolutely hate it. I got it in Sept 2017. Got pregnant with twins Feb 2018. And starting in Feb I was spotting every 2 weeks. No menstrual from Sept to Feb. Now its just unpredictable menstrual and spotting."
"I got the implant almost 2 years ago because I am terrible at remembering to take a pill and I really don't want to get pregnant.  Almost immediately,  I had some crazy mood swings. Those have gotten better and now I only have them once every few months.  My period is absurdly irregular. Recently,  in the span of two months, I was on my period every other week.  I have also had months were I went without a period. Yes, I have experienced weight gain. Yes I have irregular bleeding and mood swings. Yes, I occasionally have bouts of depression.  But I get through those pretty easily and I'm not pregnant!"
"It worked for one year. Then I started having pain in my arm where the nexplanon was under the skin. Then I had a menstrual cycle that lasted over 7 months straight. I went to my doctor several times in reference to this issue. I finally made the decision to have the it removed. I'm still having pain in my arm from my arm healing. Which has been over a year ago.  I can not recommend this product for women. I'm not the one that's had this health issue with using nexplanon."
"Works great in preventing pregnancy. I feel bad for those with frequent periods, but for me- total opposite. Shut my cycles off for the entire 3yrs. As soon as it expired, period came like clockwork. I went over the removal date by two months. My mood was so horrible, super depressed (I have major depressive disorder anyway, but this was almost scary) had the second one implanted a month ago & I feel a lot better. Maybe it balances me out, but who knows. It works well for me."
"I had Nexplanon inserted about 7 months ago. My experience has not been as bad as the ones I have read on here, which is why I am leaving a review. Since insertion, I have not had my period (which is kind of nice). I don't experience any of the mood swings or depression others talk about. The only negatives I have noticed, are occasional acne, and I have gained 10 lbs since then. Not sure if that is specific to the implant though, it could be other factors."
"For birth control it works AMAZING at preventing pregnancy, but the garbage it comes with is not worth it. I struggle to remember taking the pill, and this implant seemed much better than IUD insertion. I got it put in, all seems well, and I get my period on time. But the period never goes away and its a downward spiral from there. I kid you not I bled heavily for 7 months straight non stop, and suffered greatly because of it. My depression became horrible, chronically fatigued all the time, painful cramps, frequent dizzy spells, and I developed a slight iron deficiency from losing iron from so much bleeding, to the point to where I had to go to the ER from almost blacking out. Do not get this product. I was an idiot who ignored the reviews and stories, thinking I'd somehow be different. Don't make the same mistake I did."
"Worst birth control ever"
"It started off great I had no periods then I went to being slight periods & spotting..& now I'm on my second year with it and is been bleeding for about a whole month now and I'm back to spotting. Everyone's body reacts different to birth controls but I wasn't like this with the shot so I'm over it - I can't go on bleeding for this long"
"I loved the idea of how convenient this birth control was but if you're anyone who suffers from any type of anxiety or depression; I strongly suggest you don't try this method. I had the worst experience of my life with mood swings, lows and lots of crying even while taking anti depressants with the birth control.   I only had it for 4 months and immediately felt the difference in my body. Crazy how an inch rod can do some damage."
"I got Nexplanon about a year ago and it has been horrible. I've had very long periods and horrible mood swings. Lately I have been extremely anxious and then depressed. My poor boyfriend does not know what to do anymore or how to help me. I cry for everything and even for no reason. I made an appointment to take it off cause I cannot take it anymore and it is affecting my relationship. I have also gained 20 lbs since I got this birth control. It is horrible"
"I bled for 6 months after getting this and had bad mood swings.  I finally got it removed and am going on the pill instead. "
"I have been using it for about  7 months now and the first month it made my period a bit heavier but now I have really light periods every now and then.  I haven't had any other issues with it at all, I'm so glad this exists. I'm 18 so this is a much better solution for me because I have a hard time remembering to take the pill and I'm too scared to get anything in my vagina (like IUD) except for a condom lol, anyways all in all a very good product"
"I tried to do a lot of research before getting this birth control implant, but apparently I didn't do enough. I would not recommend this birth control to anybody. In the weeks right after I had the Nexplanon inserted, I had the absolute worst mood swings. I was horribly irritable and depressed for absolutely no reason at all for about three weeks. I had some mild cramping and spotting all throughout my time on the Nexplanon, but nothing crazy like I've seen in other reviews. However, the deal breaker for me was the insane weight gain that I experienced. I gained 20+ pounds in less than 6 months on this birth control that would not come off even with a very healthy diet and regular exercise. I made the decision to get the implant removed and it was the best decision I could have made. As soon as I got it out, I had dropped 5 pounds in three days. I started to feel like myself again. If you have weight issues, DO NOT get this birth control. You will regret it!"
"I got Nexplanon about 5 years ago, and I'm on my second round. I was horrible at remembering to take the pill and just wanted something that would prevent pregnancy. 4 1/2 years into this, I'm considering getting it removed. I'm almost 21, I still break out like I'm 14, I wouldn't say I've struggled with weight gain, but I can tell my hormones are way out of wack. I'm so emotional all the time and I was also recently diagnosed with an anxiety disorder- I think this could be a contributor. This first couple years on this birth control were great. I had a period once every 9 mo., then once every 6 mo., down to once every 3 mo.. At this point, I'm having periods that will last 2-3 months, go away for a few weeks, then come back. I would recommend this to those who can't make the commitment to taking the pill, but be prepared for how irregular your periods may become."
"""I first thought this product was great. But a few months after insertion, it caused progressively worsening mood swings, depression, and anxiety. Additionally, my periods became even longer and heavier as time went on.
After about a year and a half, I went to my OBGYN and started crying for no reason. She said, ""Did you know depression is a side effect of Nexplanon?"" Of course, I had no idea. I made an appointment the very next day to take it out.
As soon as they took the implant out, I instantly felt better. Daily pills may be a pain, but they're MUCH better than this damn product. Don't put this in your body!"""
"I'm on my second round of the nexplanon and for me and my body, the only thing I've experienced was the irregular bleeding and some minor weight gain. After a while, my period just comes every other month. I never really had cramps or super heavy periods and this just made my periods even lighter. I have experienced some weight gain but when you get into a relationship and you're happy you obviously are going to gain weight. I began to just eat healthier, portion my food, always drank hot green tea after my meals, drink LOTS of water, and exercise and I lost majority of all the weight I've gained. Ladies, just remember mind over matter !"
"I read reviews but still tried nexplanon for birth control and regret the decision immensely. I bled so much that I had to go to the ER.  The bleeding was constant for 3 weeks before I could get an appointment to get the implant removed.  I would NEVER recommend this to anyone.   Worst birth control experience ever."
"The main reason I wanted to try the Nexplanon was because of my sister. She's going on her 6th year now and has never had a period, except for the first year. Selfish of me to think I'd get the same results, right? I've had it for about a year and 10 months and I'm getting it removed in 2 weeks! The first year wasn't too bad, no periods! Besides some spotting when I first got it in, but that was expected. Year 2? Terrible. I get 2 periods a month that last a full 7 days and it's heavy. Before I got the Nexplanon my periods were not heavy at all and lasted 5 days at the most! I've also gained 30 pounds over the year. Yeah, it works...I'm not pregnant. But the constant periods are NOT worth it. Glad I'm getting it removed!"
"I was on Nexplanon for 2.5 months. I experienced major mood swings, acne and gained over 25lbs. It was convenient in that I didn't have to worry about a pill each day but I couldn't handle the side effects. As soon as I had it removed, I lost 4lbs the first week. I ended up going back on Portia (pills)."
"I was 16 when I decided to get nexplanon and I was very ignorant about the whole subject. All I knew was it was a little bar in my arm and I wouldn't have to worry about a baby for at least 3 years, sounds great right? The whole 2 years I was on it I constantly bled. And sometimes it wasn't bad just a little spotting but then other times it was real bad. It was always so uncomfortable, my poor boyfriend had to deal with the backlash from the drug as well. And not only did I bleed but odor was involved too. It was so embarrassing. Nexplanon I believe really does prevent pregnancy but with all the side affects I would have rather stayed on the pill. When I got my bar removed I was terrified. You hear all the horror story's about it breaking in your arm and it getting stuck but honestly as long as your doctor knows what they are doing then it's a perfectly fine removal. If I could go back I would have avoided nexplanon all together and I would have saved myself years of discomfort"
"I got the implant in February of 2018 (8 months ago) and expected the horrible side effects to subside by now. The past 7 months have been continuous bleeding with only a week or so between periods. I have always been petite in size and with no change to my exercise and diet, I have managed to gain 15+ pounds thanks to this birth control. My sex drive has completely dissipated. What used to be regular hormonal breakouts (prior to Nexplanon) have turn into chronic cystic acne. My predictable PMS mood swings are now consistent emotional highs/lows mixed with unreasonable depression. I'm exhausted all the time, my skin is horrendous, I can't shed the weight, I'm literally crying right now writing this because of how negatively it has effected my personal, academic, and work life. The convenience of Nexplanon is NOT worth the suffering. I am getting it removed next week."
"So I only had this birth control for 4 months & my experience was the worse I have ever had with birth controls. First the insertion process was a little painful & also the healing. Followed by the scar it left. I had no periods during this period. But I did have cramping followed by no sex drive or sensation. My anxiety got worse than ever & eventually started experiencing depression to the point I started having suicidal thoughts so I decided I had had enough & got it out. The doctor that removed it did such a bad job she cut me in all kinds of ways to removed it that I even passed out. This birth control is very dangerous."
"Have almost had the implant for a year, and have not been off my period since a week after getting the implant. Always lethargic because of it, my skin has been breaking out like mad, I have no appetite but gain major weight no matter what I do. Oh, it's very effective birth control given the fact that some of us have never ending periods and no sex drive. Doctors will give BC pills to regulate the bleeding and hormones,  but the whole point of getting the nexplanon was to not have to worry about missing a pill, and appointment for the BC shot, etc. Getting it removed soon and hoping my body goes back to normal as quickly as possible."
"Obviously everyone has a different experience on any birth control, but personally Nexplanon has made my periods extremely irregular. My periods will last up to TWO WEEKS sometimes, and often right after I get off my period it will start back up in a couple of days. I've had Nexplanon for about 5 years now (I'm on my second round), and I've noticed that after about a year and a half on it each time I will stop having periods for months on end. The first year is full of bleeding (gross, sorry), and then it slowly goes away. The only thing keeping me on Nexplanon is the fact that it lasts for 3 years and I don't have to worry about missing a pill. That aspect is awesome and the only reason I'm giving it 5 stars."
"""If you are at all prone to acne, I highly suggest you do not try this form of birth control. I received the implant in February 2017 and it was great! Everything I wanted and I didn't have to take a pill everyday, it also stopped my periods. 
But boy was I wrong, after about 2 months, I noticed lots of acne beginning to pop up on my face. I am acne prone, however I had clear skin for the last several months, the light acne then turned moderate then turned severely severe. My skin has never been so horrible. My cheeks and chin were covered in zits and I finally realized it must be because of the implant. 
I got the implant removed in August 2017 (6 months after implantation) and it took about 3 months after that for my skin to return to normal. I now have red scarring on my cheeks from the severe acne. This is not worth it at all, it completely ruined my skin."""
"So I have had nexplanon for a little over a month. Everything was fine until I got my period, it was light which was nice because I usually have very heavy flows. I had spotting everyday until I got my period not even a week later again. It was heavier than I usually have had it before. I woke up this morning with another huge flow from having my period a week and a half ago. That is three times in one month I have had my period. I'm very light headed, sex drive is low, lack of an appetite, and increase in depression. I do not recommend this type of birth control for anybody because it is not predictable and takes a long time to get used to. Talk to your doctor to find the best birth control for you."
"I had Nexplanon inserted about a year ago. What I don't like is the irregular periods, mood swings, and weight gain! I feel tired all the time too. I was on the pill for 15 years and never had all these side effects. Definitely getting this removed soon."
"After I gave birth in 2016 I had explored some implant birth control options as it was imperative that I not get pregnant for 2 years to heal from the difficult c-section I had. Nexplanon seemed like a good fit so I was happy to get on it. I never had a period on it which was the best thing but not worth the side effects. I had such a rapid weight gain that over the 2 years I had it in I gained 130 pounds! I recently had the implant removed and I'm working on losing the weight. It will be a struggle that wasn't worth putting it in at all."
"I had this inserted 3 months after having my son. Spotted for a few days and then didn't have a period until I stopped nursing my son 9.5 months later. Now I have been bleeding heavily for 21 days and counting. I am emotional and have gained a lot of weight. I do not recommend this birth control."
"I got the nexplanon implant 6 months ago. The first 5 months my period would not stop. I was highly uncomfortable with the discoloration and change in my period. The 6th month it slowed down, however, I still didn't know what was going on. I did however find out the implant was taking away the hormones necessary for normal vaginal lubrication. Leaving it dry, easy for tears and harm. This led to change in period color making me think I was hurt. I noticed I was having mood swings and I was very tired more often. It wasn't all that comfy either always pinching randomly or when u laid on it the wrong way. It was very effective. No pregnancies.! Just had bad side effects personally. I would suggest other forms of birth control."
"I've had the nexplanon for about 3 years now, I'm scheduled to get it removed next month. I chose the nexplanon because I'm horrible about taking the pills at the same time every day, and wanted an option without estrogen. The insertion was painless, only some light bruising the couple days after. I had some acne flare-ups the first year, but those subsided with some extra care. The most annoying part was the bleeding, often for months at a time. It was usually pretty light, with only a couple days of heavy, but the longest stretch was 3 months. My doctor prescribed me estradiol patches to stop the bleeding, but they honestly only work half the time. Next month I'm most likely going to switch over to an IUD to see if that works better for me. Overall, the nexplanon was a good option, but the bleeding was too bothersome to get it again at this time."
"So I got the implant February 2018, besides the excessive weight gain.. mood swings.. etc, I haven't had any problems with it. I haven't had my period since I had the implant and no spotting. I'm so glad that I chose this because the pills were to hard to keep track of."
"""Definitely has some pros and cons. 
I was spotting for over 2 weeks in my third month on nexplanon. This actually didn't really bother me since I wear pantiliners everyday, and it was enough to take care of the spotting. 
However, my sex drive plummeted. Intimacy with my partner went from being moderate to near cold turkey. 
I am ultimately removing mine in hopes to raise my sex drive. 
I would recommend this for ladies who are single, in case your sex drives decreases it won't affect any relationships. As well as for those wear pantiliners often, as I heard that many women experience persistent spotting."""
""I would not suggest this to anyone. I got this in Feb of 2018, I'm currently on it however the weight gain is just insane. I'm in the Army so working out, eating healthy and staying in shape is a must, so not sure where or how the weigh got to me since I've been in the Army longer than I have had the birth control and my weight has never had a huge change. When I got it placed in my arm I weighed 115 pounds, now I weigh 141 pounds. I've had such a horrible experience. My first month was amazing no period, nothing... although after that I got my period since then till this day I'm still on my period. My doctor said it'll be gone after six month because my body will adjust, but it didn't happen. I'm getting it removed tomorrow and plan to start the pill form again. The side affects are something that will happen with this birth control: weight gain, acne, headaches, etc. 
I would never recommend this."""
"""It messes with my body I gained 30+ pounds. 
I am over weight I'm currently 400pounds. I do not recommend this for over weight females. And I'm not so sure it's effective because people have told me when your overweight it needs changed every 1-2 years I'm on my third year like I'm supposed to and I'm not so positive I'm not pregnant. 
My emotions are crazy I can't handle it I cry cry cry I've been depressed since I've gotten this. 
Some good points are 
I forget it's even there. 
It was a pinch it barely hurt going in."""
"I've been on Nexplanon for 5 weeks and a day today and I see all of these bad reviews and maybe for some that is the case, but for me it hasn't been bad. I'm 18, I was on Nexplanon when I was 16 but got it removed bc I just didn't need it and I did experience some hormonal acne. BUT I will say, I do experience acne on the chin or hairline sometimes this time but it's not bad. I do have super sore breasts which sucks because it hurts to touch sometimes. I'm also pretty emotional but I'm a very emotional person as it is so it isn't a deal breaker. Also, after insertion my period was delayed by a little over a week. Now, this month I got spotting idk if it was my period bc it was light then medium then to super light so I'm not sure if it just a shortened period or what. But overall it's been good so far. I haven't experienced weight gain. Just remember this is birth control, there's side effects with everything."
"""Its been a year and 2 weeks.  My periods are cray. I bleed for a solid 7 days pretty heavy and super clotty.  Never was like that when I wasn't on BC.  I have upgraded to those Always ultra long over nights pads and I still have to change through out the night.  Tampons give me cramps.. so I don't use them.  For the last 4 months my periods have come every 2 weeks.. and they are always super heavy too.  My period tracker app is so confused. I just emailed my doctors office to make an appointment to get this out of my arm.
I never noticed a change in my mood though.. as far as depression goes.  No changes in my skin or weight either.  Its the ridiculous bleeding that is making me remove this implant."""
"I've had this birthcontrol for 2 years out and it lasts for 3. This birthcontrol is great if you don't want to have babies. But it's also the WORST birth control for side effects.  I've gained weight and I constantly have headaches. And the mood swings are beyond explainable.  I feel happy one minute, sad the next, and then angry. My boyfriend wants to leave me because I'm so crazy and even though I know I'm being crazy I can't help it.  The hot flashes are unbearable, my sex drive is gone.  I'm sleepy all the time. My anxiety is sky high and the depression is so bad I don't ever want to get out of bed. I CAN'T WAIT TO GET THIS THING OUT OF ME!!!! DO NOT GET THIS EVERRRRRRR!!!!!"
"This is my second term of using Nexplanon, I had it for 3 years, then just had my new one inserted 5 months ago. I did gain some weight, had insane mood swings, it made my anxiety a bit more obvious, etc. The issue is, I was not an ideal candidate for IUD (far too petite) and the pills and ring made me CRAZY MODE. So I had no choice but to try this, I wanted a complete risk free chance of pregnancy. It really is perfect minus some of the side effects. What helped me was changing my diet and working out, it reduced the symptoms to almost none.  If you eat carbs, it caters to your hormones and you start to get all sorts of loopy, I have PCOS, so the annoying part is I always have to monitor their levels. But if you're living a healthy lifestyle, eating well, and keeping active, you'll be a bit better."
"Where do I even begin?? I can't even sleep tonight because I am SO SO SO EXCITED to get this stupid thing out of my arm. It's been AWFUL the whole 10 months till I cried to my husband begging to have it removed. I gained at least 10lbs with it, the periods are extremely aggressive and they come out of no where. Last several days and then comes back the next week for several days and then comes back the following 2 weeks. It was AWFUL. The acne. Oh the horror. The acne is NO JOKE. I've never ever ever had acne until this awful rod. It's unbelievable how horrible it has been for me. I have been depressed and very moody because of it. It's just such an awful BC. I beg of you do NOT get it."
"""I'm so happy I chose the nexplanon implant! I just had a baby 6 months ago but got the nexplanon insertion during my 6 week post partum checkup appointment. The only part that hurt was when they injected the lidocaine (numbing agent) into my arm. It does leave a small bruise but then it goes away like nothing.
    After this I was on the lookout to see if I had any mood swings or any sudden weight gain but nothing so far. No headaches and I only got my period the first 2 months after I got the nexplanon inserted. I am breastfeeding so this may be the reason why my period went away completely. All in all, I'm happy that this birth control method continues to work to prevent any pregnancies and hasn't given me those nasty side affects."""
"""I had the Nexplanon inserted almost 3 years ago. 
I have a surgery scheduled next week to get it removed.
They N.P. who inserted the implant did it incorrectly and the implant is close to my muscle so now I need to get it removed as an outpatient procedure. Never again will I use Nexplanon as BC."""
"I had horrible headaches right after I got it. No periods. Blood pressure stay ed very high, never had a problem before the implant. Would not recommend this at all"
"I got the nexplanon put in 2013 had it removed in 2016 and since then my and my fiance have been trying to have a baby. Well then nothin was happening so my dr then had me get blood work done to check my levels. I came to find out my levels of estrogen and progesterone are very low. So I think this birth control cause it. Cause before I got on the birth control my levels were really high."
"Previously I had been taking birth control pills, but was never very good at remembering to take them. I decided to get this implant October of last year after I turned 19. For the first month I had no period, but since then, I have been bleeding on and off every month for almost the last year. I have been getting horrendous headaches along with mood swings as well as anxiety and depression. I previously had been dealing with anxiety and depression but have never experienced it this bad until I got the implant. I saw my doctor 2 months ago and they said the bleeding was totally normal, but something tells me having my period for almost a whole year is anything but normal. This birth control has completely ruined my sex life and is pushing me away from my significant other. Not just because of the lack of intimacy but because I have become and absolutely volatile person."
"The only good thing I have to say about this is it's good at preventing pregnancy and my periods are a lot more tolerable. I've had this in not even three full months yet and my life has taken a turn for the worst. I have horrible mood swings I have extremely severe depression and I'm either furious at the world or crying constantly. I feel like absolute garbage all the time. I don't even want to get out of bed anymore. It's really starting to effect my life and my relationship. I feel like I don't know who I am I don't even feel human or alive and I just hate it. I hate the way this stupid implant makes me feel I'll be getting it out soon."
"I was on the Nexplanon for 3 years and got it taken out on the expiration date and the same month I seemed to self implode.  I had mood swings depression, anxiety laziness & little to NO sex drive I was going insane !My boyfriend and my relationship was on and off because of me being so emotional.  I felt so weak and sad!! I said never again I would rather be pregnant than to deal with this garbage ladies I Do not recommend this to no one who wants to keep their sanity. Please do yourself a favor and skip this option when asked"
"After the first year I've had extreme mood changes. There's been lots of crying and irritability. There have been several moments in which I feel depressed and just deflated. My cycle is so wonky it's ridiculous. I still have terrible cramps and heavy bleeding sometimes. My periods are longer. I would not recommend this method of birth control. That actual implant also is visible through my skin so that's kind of freaky! Not a fan."
"When it comes to prevention of pregnancy; it works 100%  but personally I really hate the side effects. I bleed every other week, I have severe depression and really dark thoughts  and honestly that is not who I am, I've never experienced depression or suicidal thoughts and what not, I've always been a happy person. It's messing up my mental being and my life. My appetite changed a lot and I gained 15 pounds. Every time I wake up, I either feel nervous, dizzy or weak. I'm planning on removing it soon because I can't take it anymore; it's driving me crazy. But it works effectively when it comes to pregnancy"
"Severe migraines, nausea, and fluid retention. Only birth control I could not tolerate."
"First 6 months of using Xulane patch are chaotic. Nausea, headaches, random cramps/spotting, and overall uncomfortable side effects. After the 6 month peak, you start feeling normal again. Period “regularity” , clean skin, lighter/less cramps, and bigger breast/butt. Only true unexpected issue is the patch partially detaching recently, but that may be from using the same spots over and over. First cycle using, I had the worst cramps of my life. The cramps ease over time. I overall recommend."
"So I started this birth control and at first it wasn't too bad. Read some bad reviews and didn't get any side effects except a headache but wasn't sure if it was from the patch. Then, after a couple days I started feeling sooo sad and depressed, was crying over nothing and just not myself at allllll. I wouldn't recommend this birth control especially since it has so much more ore estrogen no wonder it had me so crazy. Also got a headache for two days every time I changed it."
"Nausea, diarrhea, migraine, extreme breast tenderness and fatigue. I feel lousy. I'm not pregnant but I feel as bad as if I was."
"I've been on this patch for 3 days and I've been extremely nauseous lightheaded and my stools are a brown and red mix I do not recommend this at all"
"I do not recommend this form of Birth control. I've been using the patch for 2 months and I've experienced the worst symptoms ever. The one that really stands out and has made me realize that I  have to quit the patch, would be nausea. I am nauseated all day with a constant feeling of wanting to vomit. I haven't been eating as I would usually do, which resulted in an unplanned weight loss. The first month I started the patch I weighed 199lbs and it's now the second month and I am 190lbs. Will be switching this birth control method ASAP!"
"The first 3 months was horrible! Heavy bleeding, headaches, cramps. After the rough 3 months the symptoms went away and my periods are much lighter. Does cause mild irritation to the skin, but clears up within 24 hours after the patch is removed. No serious issues"
"""I put the patch on my upper arms and switch arms each time, I've noticed that the skin where the patch was is now lighter and neither spot is exposed to the sun so I know it's not due to that. On top of my skin having light square spots on my arm the skin is really dry no matter what I do.
I do have some headaches, but I'm not sure if it's related or not, periods are  normal though and I don't deal with cramps.
I've done pills which never worked and Depo which was perfect for me, but the major side effects were not, I settled for the patch and while yes it gets the job done, but this is not some normal skin irritations. The thought of a foreign object inside my vagina or under my skin doesn't sound too pleasing as I know my body's habit of rejecting objects.
Where's all the hundreds of birth control we apparently have? I'm running out of options."""
"""Going on my second month with the patch.
First week I had slight nausea but was fine afterwards.
A couple days before my patch free/period week I've had the worst headache that lasted for 2 days. It's now the week after my  ""patch  free'  & I'm currently having another headache as I type this """
"""5 years ago I started on ortho tri cyclin & it worked out well until I got to college, went through all the stress emotions and long story short it made me crazy.
Then, I tried the birth control shot for 9 months. Went great the first round, then started losing a bunch of weight, having my periods for a full 2 months at a time & it made me anemic and you guessed it- CRAZY.
So I quit birth control all together about 7 months ago. In those 7 months I've had my period every day, along with heavy bleeding.
Talked to my gyno & since I'm busy with school & 2 jobs I needed something I wouldn't forget to take. She recommended this. So I gave it a shot.
Had this on for a week.
PROS: - immediately stopped my period, - don't have to worry about missing it
CONS: - emotional - mental breakdowns (at least 1 a day, for no reason) my boobs hurt SO BAD- my legs cramped up really bad almost immediately after I put the patch on??- nauseous. & I'm not talking about normal nausea."""
"The patch for me is honestly the worst birth control I have ever tried. I had it on for one day and it was horrible. I knew the side effects and  knew I would or could have nausea when starting out. Around 12 a.m I felt very nauseous and by that time didn't have any food in my stomach. I wanted to eat something but knew I couldn't hold any food down. An hour later I just got worse and my body felt so horrible with all the hormones from the patch. Throughout the night I was nauseous, weak vomiting and dry heaving. Which was so bad to the point were I took off the patch. After taking off the patch I still felt sick but the vomiting stopped. One of the worst pain my body has ever felt. Maybe the patch was too much for me because I am 4'11 and weigh 85 pounds but I'm not sure. I've read reviews that it worked for some people but I will try another birth control."
"I've used this method of birth control for about 6 months now. I've had the worst nausea and headaches plus the week when I'm not using the patch I'm constantly sick. I do not recommend this for anyone!"
"I don't have any side effects and I've been using Xulane it for 4 months now. I didn't even have side effects when I first started using it. I've been on pills before and this is 10 times better than pills. Personally, it doesn't affect how wet I am “down there” and it doesn't affect me getting sexually aroused. Sometimes I do get migraines but I got migraines around my period time before I started this birth control so I don't think it's the patch. love it!"
"I've tried a lot of birth control options but I recently decided to try the patch because I wanted something that didn't require daily maintenance. I followed the instructions before putting on the patch and I put it on my arm. 30 mins later after putting on the patch I experienced chills all over my body, piercing headache and best of all my HEART STARTED RACING. I personally wouldn't recommend this birth control it seems like the generic versions are always the worst. Do your research please !"
"""PROS:
1) patch method 
2) can skip periods 
3) can get in multiples (3 month supplies) 
4) helps acne 
5) helps level hormones 
6) fully covered by insurance 
CONS: 
1) major fatigue 
2) increased cervical mucus 
3) migraines
4) sore muscles 
5) groggy body and head"""
"It is almost a year that I've been on Xulane. It was amazing protecting me from getting pregnant. My periods were moderate and lasted 5 days to 6. My period would take about a day to two days before getting it when I take the patch off. And if I didn't want to have my period that week because I had a trip with the boyfriend, I'd just slap on that patch and I'd be fine.  But I hate the fact that it made me lose so much weight and even in my breast. I lost hair and it got thinner too. So I'm coming off it today unfortunately. Going to switch to a combination pill because apparently those don't cause weight loss or hair loss."
"I'm 18 around 140lbs, have been on the patch for almost a year and it has worked great for me. I use birth control to prevent pregnancy which has worked through when we are using other forms  protection and not using protection. This is the first birth control I have tried and so far its been good. I change it every week at the same time and same day. I have never changed my “patch change day” in all 11 months, which might be why it works so well for me. I have noticed my boobs have gotten bigger since I have been on the patch, I used to wear a 32C and now am a 34DD. Sometimes have headaches but thats the only side effect from using this. Overall the patch works great for me. The cost is a little pricy but good compared to other methods of birth controls."
"Best birth control I have ever been on, for some reason birth control like the patch and ring anything that involves take it off for a week and let your period come works for my body better. During 2017 I got off of it after 7 months, I have been so busy working at two different pharmacies and came across it with a patient made me reconsider to get back on it again so here I am !!"
"I suffer from PMDD. Prior to Xulane I was on Yasmin, loved it for the most part but stopped to check out what  my blood pressure was doing. When I decided to go back on birth control I wanted to try something different, I was on the Pill for 3 years. I always remembered to take it, but had problems with certain pills (lorina & ortho tri). The first two months on the patch, my boobs and nipples were EXTREMELY sore all of the time. By the 3-4 month my beast tenderness went to normal. I have been on it for almost 6 mo now. My periods are starting to lighten up. I feel like it treats my PMDD symptoms about as well as Yasmin did so I will take it. I was expecting the patch not to treat my PMDD at all. I've had some patches fall off, but I've solved it by putting it on a low contact area of my back, and rubbing it for 5 minutes when  applying, and not taking a hot shower before or after directly after applying it. I did get rashes when I put it on my butt, but on my back they are basically fine."
"""Used this for almost a year. Experienced little to no side effects until the almost year mark. I went from never having gallbladder problems and having a healthy gallbladder (had it ultrasounded the year before) to having an awful gallbladder attack and being hospitalized to have it removed because it had gotten so bad so quickly.
I didn't even want this patch in the first place, my doctor talked me into it even though I asked to be sterilized. I'll continue to push the issue until I find a doctor that listens. 
Meanwhile ladies, avoid this if you don't have to have it. It can and will mess you up."""
"I have been on a the patch for about four months now after getting my Mirena IUD removed. My husband and I are not ready for children so I figured this was the next best option. I am 27 and have been on multiple forms of birth control before the IUD and have a history of anxiety and IBS.  The first 2 months I experienced breast tenderness and basically 2 periods/month while my body was adjusting.  Slight stomachache and fatigue, nothing I couldn't handle.  But in the last 2 months I have felt major mood swings and lethargy and my anxiety has been a lot worse.  I started tracking my symptoms and found that I actually felt better on my period in terms of anxiety and nausea than when I had the patch on.  I am going to go off of it next week because I think the hormones are making me crazy.  I've never experienced anything like this before.  Effective for stopping pregnancy, but not the birth control for me."
"Ortho evra was so much better, I can tell xulane isn't as effective and I still bleed though even though I am using xulane the proper way. Also the adhesive on the patch is not sensitive skin friendly, I have welts on my skin where I put the patch; ortho evra never did that to me. Also the adhesive isn't as strong and the corners peel in the shower."
"Easy use and only have to change once a week. Weird interaction when I eat spicy food that causes pain in my arms. Increases number of migraines. Overall very good and haven't had issues of falling off."
"Ok so I have used xulane patch for 5 years. I have had some issues over the years . Such as having the patch rolling up or getting stuck to my clothing. I usually fixed it or replace it when this happens. I have also had a small rash from one batch that I believe was just a bad batch. I have had some acne, tender breast and mood swings. Over all it worked great though doing it job keeping me from having more kids. That is until recently. I am so upset this month when I removed my patch and no period came. I waited and nothing its came time to start the new patch but before I refilled I took a test. I am pregnant and used the damn thing exactly as recommended. I am so upset right now I don't know what to do."
"I've been on the patch for two years now. And it is honestly so much better than the pill. It's so easy to put on and I only have to put it on once a week. I usually stick it to my butt, alternating cheeks each week. The only downside that I have experienced is that it can be a little itchy sometimes."
"First thing I would say is that every birth control reacts differently to everyone so don't let a bad review stop you. I read a lot of negative reviews about xulane but decided to give it a try. Now this is my first time ever on bc and bear in mind its been a whole week. The first side effect I noticed was that my anxiety and depression was like 10000x worse. The nausea is slight but bearable. I found that if I start to feel nauseated I eat something light and it typically goes away. I also experienced a loss of appetite but I think its just my body adjusting to the hormones. Oh and this bc makes me extremely fatigued!!!!. But so far this bc is ok for me. I'll give it the full 3 months to see if the side effects go away."
"I have been on Xulane for two months. The first month I had minimal side effects. Mostly just small bumps at the site after I changed to a new patch site. Well for the past week, I have been having severe headaches, nausea, and last night I was experiencing dizziness while laying in bed. And then when I stood up I thought I was going to pass out. Of course my brain went to maybe I have a brain tumor or something else because I hadn't had problems the previous month. I saw others experienced dizziness, nausea severe headaches that didn't go away with Tylenol or Motrin and also balance issues. So I took the patch off and went to sleep. Also experienced severe fatigue and would get extremely tired and was sleeping all the time. I also gained 10 pounds in two months. I woke up after not having the patch on for seven hours. I woke up no more headaches, nausea or dizzinessI liked the ease of just changing the patch once a week but the side effects were too much for me."
"I've been on xulane for about 4-5 years and it was good at first because I didn't know any better. Helped combat my endometriosis and ovarian cysts which were horrible. However, this BC is the pits. I literally have every side effect this BC offers minus the stroke and heart attack stuff.  The mood swings and anxiety are the absolute worst.. High blood pressure, hot flashes, migraines and headaches, breast tenderness and swelling, and major cramping in between and on my period are all bad too. I would advise against this form of BC. I'm in talks now with my doctor about changing this because the side effects are more harmful than helpful for me."
"Worked good at preventing pregnancy, but horrible side effects. I have been experiencing crippling depression, mood swings, and anxiety. As well as slight weight gain. Up until being on this birth control I was the happiest and most positive person, I was motivated and loved life... I recently got off and quit using because I am realizing what it is doing to my body. The good does not outweigh the bad, and I will be quitting birth control for good."
"I had 0 side effects on the patch so I love that. But it has fallen off EVERY single week which is crazy because the "clinical trial" said it only falls off 5% of the time. Maybe a once a day hot shower is too much for it?? I've tried different areas and it doesn't want to stick more than a few days. Then the adhesive wears off and the edges get loose from lint. I've even tried medical tape to keep it on. I love that it's not daily and I have no side effects. But I'm so stressed out that it wont stay on so...efficiency rating goes down?"
"I've been on xulane for three months now and there aren't a lot of negative things I have to say about the patch. The only bad side effects I have had so far is that my boobs ache, badly. They are bigger (before the patch I was a 34DD, who knows now) but they are so sore to the point where I have to hold them but still get no relief.  Also, I have the CRAZIEST dreams on this birth control - even if I've only been sleeping a few minutes. They are so vivid it's unreal. I also do get a little itchy when I put my patch on for the first day but nothing crazy and it usually subsides that day. My period has lightened up and shortened which I don't mind but I've always had a lighter period to begin with so no change there. I would recommend this birth control for other women to try. Each woman will react different but it's worth it to try!"
"Been on and off this BC for about a year now. My periods seem to have shorten tremendously and my breast literally increased cup size. I suffer from migraines and surprisingly, I haven't had much of an episode on this. I have noticed however, a change in my sex drive, which is not all that great now, and a HUGE change in my mood and behavior. I pretty much feel like I am dealing with post partum depression all over again, I cry randomly, I'm sad a lot more than I can digest and I literally get angry without warning. It's really a love and hate thing for me, but the fact that my boyfriend and my daughter can notice a change in me overall, I think this is doing more harm than good. Deciding to take it off during my next period. If you have any anxiety or history of mental illness such as depression, please do your research, this definitely not for everyone."
"I'm 22 and been on this birth control for a few months and I have had no major problems with it. No weight gain, my face is super clear, VERY light periods that last about 5 days! I'm writing this because there are so many negative reviews about this birth control when it just depends on your body since we're all different! Only negative would be I do get a bit more moody but nothing major!"
"I have mixed feelings about Xulane. It did wonders for me regarding my functionality while being on my period. I used to bleed very heavily, feel very dizzy and lightheaded like I was going to pass out, vomit, and have awful cramps. That all went away when I started taking this. I also like how convenient it is. The patch stays on pretty well. But that is all I have to say that's good. It took about three months for my body to adjust, but I had excruciating headaches and spotting for two weeks straight at a time. The worst part of this are the awful mood swings I get. I don't feel like myself sometimes. I'll just be irrationally angry over the smallest things or have minor anxiety attacks. It killed my sex drive, which is the complete opposite of how I used to be, and it's starting to take a toll on my marriage. It all makes sense considering that the information packet that my pharmacy gave aid that IT CONTAINS MORE ESTROGEN THAN CERTAIN PILLS."
"Have been on since October 2016. Started off well. Had 4 day periods. Over time I had weight gain about 20-30 lbs. Hot flashes and vaginal dryness/infections started to happen. I haven't gotten pregnant on it and it didn't effect my mood much which is impressive since I already have clinical depression. 6/10."
"I have been on Xulane for 3 weeks and while I have loved the convenience of the patch I had to take it of yesterday. With the first two patchs of the month I felt fine at first but experienced swollen and sore breasts. That I could handle. However, when I put the third patch of the month on I started experiencing nausea, anxiety, and dizzying headaches. I threw up everything I ate and when I wasn't throwing up I was crying. I didn't feel like myself and I didn't know how to make myself feel better. I started taking xulane because I was having a period every other week. I'd rather do that that feel how I felt when I put on the third patch that day. Xulane while convenient is not for everyone."
"""This is the best birth control EVER! I have a really hard time remembering to take normal (pill form) birth control, so this saved my freaking life. My periods are SO much better, my skin has cleared up. I'm less moody. SIS! I LOOK SO GOOD DUDE I'M LITERALLY GLOWING. MY BOOBS ARE SO PERKY.
For me this is the only birth control option
Plus I'm not pregnant so. 
seriously, try it out."""
"I have been on the patch for maybe 5 months now, and I do like it because my cramps are not bad, my period is not as heavy or horrible as it use to be and I do not get pregnant on it. But I throw up a lot on the patch, it also increases my anxiety. I am miserable being on this type of birth control, I would not recommend this to anyone.."
"""I love Xulane. I have PMDD and/or bipolar and this patch has helped me tremendously. I literally used to cry 10-15 times a week and now I only cry when it's appropriate.
I have very sensitive skin so it does turn my skin red, but I just make sure to put it somewhere else next time and the redness goes away quickly. It is a little itchy but I'm used to it now.
The best part of this is how hard it is to mess up! The worst part is I've been spotting for months - but all BC so far has done that for me."""
"I'll write another review on the Xulane patch, given I only put it on a few days ago. I'm 25, 120lbs, nonsmoker, healthy foodie. My doctor prescribed the Xulane patch due to my PMDD. So far, I've noticed that my skin has cleared up rapidly. My symptoms have massively lessened- usually I deal with bad migraines, heavy bleeding, chest tension, swelled breast, & dibilitating cramps before & during cycles. An hour prior to putting the patch on, I had a migraine. I noticed my new cycle was beginning, so I started it. The pain began fading off within an hour tops. Pain from cramps are barely there, haven't had swelling or aches so far, & the flow lightened up immediately. No itching, took a shower & it didn't budge one bit. My doctor DID talk to me about the risk of blood clots, which is also stated in the papers in the Xulane box. I'm not worried though. 10/10, hope the next review I write will be a great one."
"I do not recommend this patch to anyone with sensitive skin. I thought this maybe the next thing I tried after giving birth and not wanting to take the pills everyday. I placed this on my butt cheek and after one day, I noticed itchiness. I did not think of it much until 5 days later when I felt the area throbbing in pain and swollen. My skin had a bad allergic reaction to the patch and I took it off right away. Now I am still recovering from the area so please be aware of serious skin allergic reaction if you have sensitive skin."
"I've been on the Xulane Patch for 2 1/2 months now, but I just took it off this morning. When placing the patch, whichever butt cheek I would put it on, that leg would go numb for about an hour. I was having crazy mood swings. And every 1st patch of the box would cause me to throw up for a few days. The Xulane Patch is not for everyone."
"This is one of the most dangerous forms of birth control on the market for people with depression, anxiety or bipolar disorder. The anxiety it causes is unlike anything I've ever felt. I took it out of desperation after trying pill after pill. It was a horrible mistake. I was only on it for about 10 days. I ended up spending the next 48 hours alternating between crying and pacing my house, convinced I had become another person, terrified I had lost my mind. This medication should be taken off the market. Please do not risk using this if you have any sort of mental condition or have ever had any sort of anxiety-related issues."
"I've been on it for 2 years. It doesn't really bother me too much but the patch does come off often. It helps make my period lighter and no weight gain. Thinking about switching due to it coming off too often."
"I was on this patch in my twenties and went on it again after my second child was born. I have been back on it for 2 months. I suffer from migraines in general but being on this makes them last so much longer especially around the time I'm due for my period. I also have anxiety and this is also so much worse. I have also put on 5 pounds. I am feeling extremely depressed and I'm probably taking the patch off and switching."
"Some reviews said that it comes off in the water but I have not had this happen. You have to make sure there is no lotion or soap residue on the area before you put it on. Also, I always wipe the area clean with running alcohol before I apply to ensure a tight hold. And if I place it in my pelvic area I shave first, wipe with alcohol and press firmly. I go swimming all the time for hours at a time and it has never fallen off. I've had no side affects especially with my sex drive or vaginal lubrication. No headaches or nausea for me. I feel absolutely normal even with having hypothyroidism, which impacts different hormones, I don't feel any side affects. I always recommend this to my friends. It's much easier then remembering to take a pill and safer for me then an IUD. I say everyone should try it for themselves rather then be scared off my other people's bad experiences."
"I started Xulane about a year ago and while it did it's job for the birth control aspect of it, it made me suffer in my relationship as I NEVER wanted to have sex. My libido was shot and my bodies natural lubrication system was gone. The thought of sex to me was appalling which is a complete 180 of what I was like. If I wasn't in a relationship then I guess that would be okay but I am and we suffered because of that. I have been off Xulane for 2 weeks and feel so much better. It caused me to have constant mood swings and just never feel “right” I am switching back to the pill as it has less hormones and hopefully things will get better from here on out. I gave it a decent rating as it does prevent pregnancy (if you ever want to have sex lol)"
"I started on Xulane 2 weeks ago. I placed the initial patch on a Wednesday. First thing I noticed was itchiness around the site of placement. Just a mild irritation that eventually went away. Also, the 2nd thing I've noticed is breast tenderness and swelling. I am on my second week and my breasts are VERY sore to touch. They feel heavy and swollen. I've also had some itching on or around my breast. I've had some mild nausea as well. I like the convenience of only replacing it once a week. I went to the beach with mine on my lower abdomen. It stayed in place. I noticed it was coming up a bit when I got home, but it's still on and flat as of right now. I was in the water a little over two hours. So, I think it held up pretty good. I have about 2 days until I change it again. I place it in a different spot every time like the instruction say to do. We'll see how I feel when it's cycle time. I haven't noticed any mood swings as of present."
"""This birth control sucked for me. First of all if you think about going swimming or anything just say forget the patch, it comes off. Then while I 
 had been on this patch for almost a month I get very nausea and start gagging. It makes me have hot flashes and makes me very un easy."""
"I started using Xulane patches because I have such heavy & long periods & I never really liked the pill. The first two months were terrible I was bleeding so heavily & was cramping so bad. Eventually the bleeding stopped & my period came which was super light but still bad cramps. Now I'm back to spotting with stomach cramps & I've been on Xulane since May so I'm hoping my body adjusts soon. Haven't gotten pregnant either but Im not having sex so lol. Besides the side effects I've never had problems with the application process & it never falls off as long as I place around my butt area. I would recommend to give it a try out though despite all the negative reviews."
"I used depo shot before I changed to the patch due to the significant change in my sex drive. On depo shot I had no sex drive entirely. Then, the good side about the patch is that it's super convenient, and it got my sex drive back! However, I completely lost my appetite, and my mood swing was crazy. Also, as someone who had some depression history (even it was just minor), this patch got my depression back, which was horrifying! I was not able to sleep well, and feeling constantly sad, empty and under a lot of self hate. That's just not me! And it's been bothering my daily life and my work really really bad. Today I took the patch off and switched to the Nuva Ring as the doctor said the ring has less hormone. I hope Nuva Ring would make my depression stop..."
"So I've been on this patch for about a 3 1/2 weeks and I took it off to have my period a couple of days ago and I've had nothing but horrible anxiety. My body is so shaky and I thought it might just be my normal anxiety but this is the only change in my daily schedule so it's definitely the patch messing with me. And I really like it too but I cannot deal with how I feel. Any other recommendations would be wonderful."
"I've been on the patch for 6 months. The birth control part is fine but I am having problems with it sticking. Some times they don't stick and just peel off so I have to use another one and then I'm short a patch. They should make it where every third box has an extra. And since I'm having problems with my insurance I'm paying 120$ every month for my patches which is ridiculous. I just spent 120$ and one patch didn't stick so today I have to get a whole new box just for one more patch to replace the one that wasn't sticking. The price is stupid on these and the stickiness isn't the best but besides that I don't have any issues."
"I recently went on birth control for the first time. My partner and I chose the Xulane patch for convenience. Being over 35 I was concerned about blood clots, but was told to "see what happens" after trying it. Thankfully I never encountered blood clots but I do wake up with headaches that sometimes last for two days, I have this weird vaginal odor, not fishy but just a weird smell and I've had problems with my throat. I still have my tonsils and so I get strep at the drop of a hat, but I've had it twice since starting the patch two months ago. Currently I don't have strep but I have nasty pus pockets on my tonsils. When reading other reviews I read that throat infections is a side effect of xulane. Xulane is convenient and a good form of birth control, but for me it's not worth the side effects that come from using it."
"I've been on the patch for a year and I love it.  It is so easy to remember but recently my patch fell off and I couldn't get it to stick back on.  My normal patch changing days are Wednesday but it fell off on a Friday so I put a new one on Friday and that was about a month ago I've been bleeding ever since. I just took my 3rd patch off for my real period week so hopefully after this my body regulates again."
"I have been on the patch a little over 2 yrs. I loved it. But as more time kept on passing by, I notice that every time before my period I would get extreme headaches. I thought it was just  ]to my hormones. But then on one check up the doctor said my  blood pressure was high. She didn't do anything. She just said that if I didn't feel good to go to the ER"
"Been on Xulane for 6 months now and the only side effects were when I first used it and got a little nauseous. Made my periods so much lighter and overall has hardly changed me. I gained some weight but I don't think it was related. 100% recommend."
"I switched from 5 years of using the pill to the patch due to a need in increased estrogen. Everything was going well. Except they say the patch will stay on with sweat, and most of the time it does, but also it rolled right off three hours after I worked out one time. I did not have any sex while on this medication. And the day before my period I got a mind splitting migraine, so now I'm exploring different options because I could not function, but it is easier to just stick a patch on once a week"
"I'm on month one of Xulane, my last patch of the month. I love this method cause its so easy. BUT let me tell you, I get the craziest mood swings and my emotions are all over the place. There are days where I'm randomly sad over the silliest things or just don't want to deal with people, PMS but times ten! I get nausea here and there too,  not too often but when i do it really sucks. My breasts are extemely tender, sometimes I'll wake up in the morning to my boobs feeling so heavy and sensitive. Also my appetite...I eat a lot! Now for my periods, I haven't gotten it but most of the time I feel like I'm on it, I'll get minor cramps or get bloated and fatigued. I will probably get off the patch which is unfortunate cause of how easy it is but its just not for me. I have every negative symptom."
"No side effects. Sex drive still there, so far pretty good. I've only been on it for a month so I'll seen how it works in a couple of months."
"Gave me high blood pressure and migraines after having been on it for about 2 years. Got off of it took about two months for my BP to regulate it finally did. Doc said it was due to the high amount of estrogen in it."
"This is the worst thing I have done to my body. I have been on this patch for a year. The first few months I didn't notice any major side effects except for the itching. Then I start noticing that I was very irritated and anxious for no reason. Again didn't suspect that it was due to the patch. Now a year into it, I realised it s all due to this stupid patch. I had never been like this. The mood swings and irritation got so severe that I was becoming a completely different person. Constantly tired and depressed.  Stay away from this patch. I DO Not recommend it."
"So I was originally on sprintec for 4 months last year and I hated it because of low libido and I felt like it was increasing my chances of getting yeast infection. I would get them every month. So I was scared to try the pill again. However once I became sexually active, I wanted to take all precaution so I decided to try the patch and I've been on it for 2 weeks going on 3 and it's been pretty great. I would say I have a huge headache the first day but that could also be that I stupidly took plan B the same day. So a lot hormones was  coursing through my body. I barely have any side effects. Sometimes I wonder if the patch is actually working because I don't have any side effects. My sex drive seems to still be there which is great. My only thing is that, I'm noticing that I have more vaginal discharge. But other than that it's great. Give it a try, you'll never know."
"I had the implant in my arm last year but I started to have long periods (7-10 days) and redness and tenderness at the implant site. I had it removed and started xulane in November 2017. I began to have very long periods that progressively became worse each month. To the point that as of Feb 12 I haven't stopped bleeding. I also had extreme nausea and vomiting. I just had my doc put me on the pill 14 days ago. I'm still bleeding. This sucks..."
"I'm currently recovering from a life threatening illness this product chose not to share with us. The patch and the ring are more likely to give even the healthiest, youngest of women BLOOD CLOTS. Nobody warned me about this. I had just been released from the hospital lucky to be alive and being told less than 24 hours later I would have passed away BECAUSE OF MY BIRTH CONTROL. I have blood clots within my entire left leg and blood clots within my lungs. I feel lies told by not only this company but by my doctors as well because nobody warned me how likely I'm able to get a clot from THIS specific birth control. Take this garbage off the market and stop claiming lives. Do your research, you'll see the damage this specific product as well as other birth controls have done."
"This is the worst patch ever! I've been on it for 2 weeks and I have these bad rashes on my skin where the patch was located. It itches sooooo bad!!! It doesn't stick well! The words come off the patch once you touch it! I didn't have these problems with my other brand!!!"
"I use to take Ortho Evra when I was younger and was completely fine on it. I thought I would have a similar experience on Xulane. I ended up with severe mood swings, depression, and anxiety, to the point of crying everyday for weeks. I had low libido, was tired all the time, my vision became blurry, I lost my appetite, I had severe headaches, and loss of balance. I'd wake up in the middle of the night from sweating so much. I tried to let my body get use to the high amount of hormones in this product but I couldn't take it anymore. I didn't feel like myself and it was affecting my marriage. I am now making an appointment with my doctor to see what other options are out there.  I'm happy this drug has worked for some of you ladies but I would be careful if it starts affecting your mental health like it did mine. I feel relieved not being on it anymore."
"I've had a pretty good experience  with Xulane. I've been using it about two years. The big thing I would say is that this pill has more estrogen in it than oral contraception which I believe is what causes the enhanced side effects. My patch day is Sunday and I do notice that on Sunday and Monday I tend to have headaches and nausea. My breasts hurt more all month so that can be irritating, but I have not had any weight gain and my moods are relatively even. It works as far as not getting pregnant as long as you use it correctly every time. I'm very paranoid about birth control so I change it at the same time every week and do a quick check through out the day to make sure it is still there. If used correctly, it's just as effective as the pill and more so for me because I was notorious for missing days while on the pill. My periods come on time every month. I would say if you're someone who has a hard time taking a pill every day, it's worth a shot!"
"Been on the patch about 2 months and so far so good. I had my tubes tied 7 years ago so I'm not really using it for the contraceptive. After getting my tubes tied, my periods were AWFUL!! Like between 7/8 heavy days every month! With the patch, it's slowed down to about 4 days so no complaints on that side but I'm always EXTREMELY tired after changing my patch! Like I literally sleep all day on my change day! My breasts have definitely increased which isn't a bad thing lol if they weren't so sore all the time."
"""Before I explain my experience, let me first state that as long as you use this form of birth control correctly, it will work in preventing pregnancy. That being said, I did use this correctly for 4-5 months, and did not fall pregnant once.
I did, however, have some unanticipated side effects; After the first 2-4 weeks, I experienced extreme mood swings, more facial breakouts in between periods, a 8-10 pound weight gain/bloat (did not change my diet), my breasts were incredibly swollen, and as a result, I went up a full cup size, intermittent cramping, and the worst of all was the nausea- it was every morning and night. I felt like I was pregnant for the last 3-4 months while on this birth control. I understand that my reaction may differ from others' reactions, so don't let this one bad review keep you from trying it out. It works for many women, but I am not included in that group. I just took off the patch, and anticipate going back to normal in the next 4-6 weeks. Good luck!"""
"I was surprised to see how many people reacted negatively to this birth control. Before I was prescribed Xulane, I was having bleeding between periods that was as heavy and painful as an actual period. My doctor said that this would help regulate my cycle. After the first month, I had no problems with spotting-so that was exciting! I am not sexually active, so I cannot speak to the effectiveness in preventing pregnancy. The first month of using the patch was not a huge deal. I had LOTS of tenderness in my breasts but they grew about a cup size so I was not complaining. I have had no weight gain, acne, etc. The only thing that I have been wondering about is the day I change my patch, I have noticed a little more irritability, but I am not sure if that is directly related to Xulane. Overall, I am SO happy with this birth control. I know exactly when/how long my periods will last and I can't remember the last time I had cramping!"
"It's itchy. Hard to hide, especially when you're a diver. A lot of ignorant people thought it was nicotine patch. Boobs grew like crazy. Periods came whenever they wanted regardless if the patch was on or off me. Very strong and quick emotions. Moody. I didn't notice the change in my temperament but others around me did. Wasn't sexually active on this birth control but I don't believe my libido changed during it. Wary on the protection against pregnancy."
"I really would not recommend for anyone with history of depression or bipolar disorder. It's been about a week since  I had to take it off, the side effects are too much for me. I'm too scared to sleep due to heightened anxiety. I'm experiencing the same things I did when I was very depressed, detached and afraid"
"It's an okay form of birth control, the convenience is good but I work out a lot and I sweat a lot due to the sauna and intensity. The patch does NOT hold up to intense sweat, it fell off after I performed my HIIT and I couldn't stick it back on even after I dried the patch and my skin (however I was wearing it on my lower back..when I wear it on my torso, it sticks okay). Just fair warning, if you're going to wear it in a hot climate area and you're prone to sweat, the adhesive will lose it's strength. I don't recommend this for those with active lifestyles...otherwise, seemed like a good idea, just not for me I suppose. Also, the first day you will experience nausea and dizziness as your body begins to absorb the hormones. I tried wearing this patch twice (new patches each time) with no success or reliability...hope this helped some of you."
"So far so good "
"I was on othro evra for 6 years and with Xulane for about 3 years or so . I'm 23 and I really don't have any complaints . I haven' tgot pregnant since I started using it . I lost some weight when I started using it back when I was 16. Lost about 15 pounds in 3 months. Personally, I was happy I lost weight . But then , noticed I looked way to skinny and started to get worried . Took a break from the patch a whole summer and when I went back I gained 5 pounds in one month . Took a break again  went back to it and gained 10 pounds in 2 months . Took a last break and gained almost 20 pounds so , I don't take breaks any more lol. I use to weight 115lb now I weight 140lb. I also grew some inches but , I'm done gaining weight so I'm not taking a break again ! Overall , just breast tenderness is a huge issue since it makes my boobs get soooo hot and swollen . Other than that , I like it ."
"I lasted for about three weeks on Xulane. My depression, which had been well controlled for 5 years reappeared with a vengeance. Every night since I started on it I've woken up around 3AM and stayed awake for at least an hour, which is strange even with my occasional trouble sleeping. Seriously though, my depression. I wish my doctor had warned me about how bad it could get, maybe I would've seen my state of mind deteriorating sooner and could've avoided some of this. I'm still suffering from brain fog and extreme apathy. I hope to get back to normal soon, I took off the patch last night."
"I'm going on about nine months on the patch. This is the longest I have ever been on birth control, so some of the side effects are new to me. My biggest concern was that I had less and less self lubrication about six months after starting, but that is normal. The doc prescribed silicone based lube, so if you're having this problem, ask your doc. But I'm not pregnant, so obviously it works!! I have noticed that it is about $152 without insurance though, so choose wisely!"
"I honestly love this patch. I've been on it for about 6 months. The first couple of months I had tender breasts but I was told that was normal. Although I did go to MEPS (military entry processing station) and they noticed some lumps in my breast. They went away after a couple weeks. My periods are way less, lighter and shorter in length. Although my cramps are way worse. I believe that's because I chose to do the 3 months without the period rather than having a period every month. 10/10 would recommend to anybody."
"""I started Xulane on a Sunday.
Monday woke up super hyper and keyed up. Around supper time I get so fatigued I can barely keep my eyes open.
Started spotting Tuesday afternoon. Tuesday night fatigued again. Started losing my appetite.
Weds full blown bleeding, cramps, nausea.....felt horrible! Ended up leaving work early because I felt so bad and my anxiety was high.
Thursday heavy bleeding and living like I'm pregnant on Saltines and Sprite. The nausea was constant. Felt so tired. Couldn't concentrate and felt dizzy everytime I moved. Ended up leaving work early again because I had a sudden panic attack: couldn't breathe, my extremities and face went numb, crying hysterically, and felt like I was going to puke. Once it passed I was so tired I slept for hours.
Friday I woke up with a headache and anxiety is already full force. I ripped the thing off. I would rather see how I do without it than do this. DO NOT recommend at all!"""
"Barely going into week 3 with the patch , nausea wasn't much of a problem for me but wow it is so itchy! So hard to not pick at it."
"I have been on the xulane patch for three months now and I haven't had any major problems. I had nausea on the first day I used it but it settled quickly. The only thing I will say is that it does get a bit itchy and it peels a bit around the edges all the time which gives me a bit of anxiety, but I haven't had any scares. My periods have gotten lighter and the duration of it is less too. No weight gain, less acne, no mood swings -its great so far! Id recommend it if you're not prone to getting headaches or nausea."
"No problems with this whatsoever I've been on it for a few years and it's perfect. Only bad part for me is it gets itchy where the patch is sometimes."
"""First month on the patch. Definitely had headaches and nausea but I didn't mind because it's been helping me lose weight (very slowly like 3lbs a month) 
Had some brown spotting a few days before I was supposed to start free week but they say it's normal. So far so good."""
"I always feel nauseous and like I have to puke, the patch also gets irritating to use because I get a rash and it gets very itchy. Disappointed in the birth control I use."
"I've been seeing a lot of negative reviews for this patch but this goes to show that everyone's body will react to it differently. Although I am only 18 and have been on it for only about 2 months this patch has been doing great at normalizing my periods and the only side affect that I'm guessing might be from the patch is that for some reason I've been feeling wayy hungrier as the days pass and maybe even a little moody but other than that it's been great for me and hopefully it continues to be like that"
"""This patch sucks!! 
I haven't been on birth control in over 4 years, and I'm 22. At this point, the pregnancy scares are more manageable than dealing with this crap.
I've worn this patch for two weeks; the first week didn't seem too bad, minor headaches and moodiness, but that fairly common for me. Week two and three days in, I can't stop crying because my nausea and cramps are so horrible, and I have a high pain tolerance. It's frustrating and aggravating to not be able to eat or even stand up for more than a few minutes without feeling like I'm going to puke or pass out. I just took the nasty thing off, screw it. 
DO NOT USE THIS PATCH"""
"I started the patch for my first time ever. I put it on an I immediately felt dizzy and had to sit down. The dizziness slowly faded, I would strongly recommend this patch! I woke up this morning with no issues, I experience no mood swings so far, no breakouts anywhere, and no depression. I'm super tired and have a constant headache. It's a mild headache that makes me want to sleep in a dark room.  Other than that it's overall a good patch and way easier than the pills!"
"I started the patch 3 days ago and so far I haven't had any side effects I have it on my upper thigh thinking maybe next time I will try my shoulder area but it's sticking and staying on great even in shower. I like it a lot and definitely with continue to use"
"I was on the patch for about three months taking it continuously. The first month I had severe breast pain, some nausea, bloating and Over that time I also gained about 17 lbs. In the second month those side effects lessened however I started spotting which slowly progressed to complete bleeding over the entire following month. I finally had to stop taking it after so much bleeding that kept getting progressively worse and it took over a week to stop bleeding again after I stopped."
"I was on ORTHO EVRA for about a year, then on this for 3-4 years. In the beginning it was fine, but slowly started loosing hair, retaining water, experiencing chronic anxiety (could barely handle driving at times), chronic brain fog, and major depression with highs and lows. My general practitioner believes it's because of the excess hormones suppressing my liver production.  I hate this patch so much for ruining my thick hair and decreasing my quality of life. Sex was disappointing so I stopped having it and didn't even care. I will never use this again. My breasts swelled as if I was pregnant and they always hurt. Remember this is a high dose of synthetic hormones. IMO, use with extreme caution. I say run far away from this.."
"I'm 24 and was on Xulane for only 2 wks. Been off it for 2 wks now. The side effects were HORRIBLE. I had a huge migraine for 5 days and slept 14 hours each night for the first 2-3 days. My nausea was overwhelming; dropped 5lbs the 1st wk. By the 6th day, I thought my body had adjusted. 5 days after I put the 2nd patch on, I felt an intense pain in my chest. By the 4th hr I had enough and went to the ER. I had lots of tests done; everything came out normal. I took off the patch and it slowly subsided. Once in a while I still feel a dull ache in the same area. The side effects weren't worth it to me at all. I switched because I hated remembering to take a pill every day - seems like a small price to pay now."
"This patch is amazing!! I been on the patch for almost 3 years now and no pregnancies or scares. Personally the patch does not stick anywhere on my upper body but that is minor. My periods are longer (lighter) but my cramps are less painful and are shorter. I used to have nausea, vomiting and severe abdominal and back pain. On this patch my pain level is lower and it's amazing. I recommend this patch to anyone!"
"This patch sucks!!!!  I used it for one month, and said screw it. My side effects just weren't worth it. First and foremost. I'm 25. and have had to try several b.c to see if my body would like it. The first negative side effect was the nausea. I put the first patch on and that night I had vomiting, severe headache - not good.  I  pushed through the puking and finished my 3rd week with severe anxiety attacks, panic attacks and depression. I knew this wasn't me and that it wasn't normal. It wasn't my stress causing this but I was so scared having these attacks of shortness of breath, rapid heartbeat I went to the ER my heart was fine. I high blood pressure upon arrival. DON'T USE THIS PATCH!!!"
"This patch almost killed me"
"I haven't been on birth control since my high school early 20s and since I'm super fertile I had to get on something at 37 since I'm avoiding tying my tubes. So far since using this for almost 6 months its been pretty ok. Pros perky boobs and no pregnancies. Cons longer "light" cycles and anxiety attacks (which were not an issue ever in my life). I'm a little more forgetful/less focused at times as well. Debating on getting off to really see how my body is without it again. I would definitely recommend it if you HAVE to have birth control."
"I have used this form of birth control and it has been really helpful at controlling my periods. I have dysmenorrhea, and it has really helped my terrible cramps. I don't have any side effects, other than at week 3, I always get cramps. They are painful in my pelvis and anywhere near my genitals, my back, and/or my abdomen. The patch itself would begin to peel or roll up, and even start to roll up on my skin. It has never come off of my skin, and it has been in the water many times. I have a good schedule, and take it on and off weekly at the same time. I still don't understand why I get cramps before my period, but I have always had issues with other birth controls when it came to spotting and not being strong enough for me."
"I am on my first month of this patch, I am about to take it off in a couple of days for my patch-free week and wow. I was expecting headaches, nausea, a lot of issues to be honest as I suffer almost daily with chronic headaches. Before I was taking an ultra low dose pill called Lutera which they have now discontinued. This patch has a much higher dosage of hormones than what I was used to so I expected side effects. I've had none to the point I wondered if it was working! I actually feel happier on this patch, my headaches have actually improved, I seem to have more energy too. The only thing I've noticed is that I get tiny pimples UNDER the patch when I've taken it off, which is very minor. Love this patch so far. Hope it continues!"
"I was on the patch when I was 16 with no problems, so I decided to try it again at 25. Within a week my entire butt-cheek was numb, that was the end of it for me."
"""I was once on the ORTHO EVRA patch which was a dream option for me.
This med they call Xulane gives me a HORRIBLE, I mean H O R R I B L E rash, presumably from the adhesive. When you scratch from the uncontrollable itch, you risk micro lacerations that this glue enters your skin and then suddenly the rash turns into a full-blown allergic reaction that is unbearably burning, itching, and even aching. Yes, ACHING. Return the ORTHO EVRA PATCH ASAP!"""
"I've tried the Xulane patch before in the past for about 2 years and plan on starting it again within the next few weeks. It did an amazing job keeping me from getting pregnant. I never had any issues with the patch coming off. I did experience some issues with vaginal dryness and low libido (which is a possible side effect for any hormonal birth control). I also had the worst PMS. I was a straight up B word. The reason I stopped is because I wanted to give my body a chance to get back to normal. I've been off for almost a year now, but now I'm concerned about getting pregnant so I have to get back on something. This birth control has the least amount of side effects for me so that's why I'm going back with it."
"Haven't even had it on for a full month, but it's not to bad. The first week I put it on my hip bone/ pelvic area. Had no problems other than very little cramping here and there. Although I do get moody some days, other days I'm fine. It's hit and miss. So that kinda sucks for my bf cuz I feel bad for snapping at him. But The second week I put it on my butt right before bed. The next day I was EXTREMELY nauseous and got the worst migraine ever and even felt feverish. I moved it back to my hip, but on the opposite side as before and the symptoms went away after a few hours. Yay! I would recommend maybe staying away from meaty parts of the body. I think it might absorb it a lot more, is. But I've heard from other moms that said the same thing"
"I've tried two different types of birth control pills, each for almost 8 months. I constantly forgot to take the pills, and it just didn't work for me. My doctor recommended I switched to the shot. WORST EXPERIENCE EVER. 0/10 recommend from me. But then my doctor and I talked about other medications I can take, and it was between the IUD and the patch. Before agreeing to take the patch, I was told that it may fall off when I was in the water, and there may be side effects. When I started this, I had absolutely no side effects whatsoever. I soon skipped a week, and I messed up the patch cycle, but no side effects. I didn't think it would work, but I've been on this for almost 7 months, and I love it"
"I had a really bad experience with xulane and have since switched to the pill. For the first month or so, I didn't have any dermal reactions to the patch that I noticed. I found them impossible to keep in one place on my body however, and they always slipped around or started coming away from the skin at the edges. I also noticed cramping, and never felt secure that my birth control was effective. For some reason, the worst side effects started occurring after about a month of using it. As soon as I scratched anywhere the patch was located the skin would become red, puff up and secrete a clear fluid. It was gross and left dark marks on my body which are still here a year after. The patches would then come off because of the reaction."
"""I am 23 now, and I have been on Xulane for almost 2 years now. I have had no noticeable change in moods, sex drive is normal (there seems to be a spike towards the end of the third week, but no complaints there), 
and I've had basically no issues with it. The ONLY way I got side effects was if I strayed from the schedule either by accident or I lost a patch and had to go without. 
Ortho Evra - the other 'brand' on the other hand.. did NOT agree with me. I had horrible nausea starting up every week I put the patch on, and slowly got accustomed to it after months of nausea. 
I would clarify with your doc which one they would give you. Also, since all bodies are different, maybe one won't work with you but the other will. Who knows."""
"Been on xulane for 7 months, most of the time I'm chill, no mood swings, periods are lighter, I used to have awful cramps now I only have minimal cramping on the first day of my period.  I love it, only thing that's annoying is the occasional headaches and nausea.  The nausea is super annoying cause I love to eat, other than that I recommend it!"
"I've just started using the patch and other then getting some very minor headaches it's been great!! I can have unprotected sex, though we still use condoms to be safe, and not worry about getting pregnant again!! Everyone's body is different!! The only other thing that I've experienced with the patch is an increase in my sex drive. But to any girl or woman looking to use a method of BC I recommend the Xulane patch!"
"I tried xulane for 2 months.  I started getting headaches on left side of my head. Dizziness and worst depression. Everyday I felt depressed after 3 weeks of using it. I was in a bad mood most of the time. I finally took it off a week ago and my headaches are less. . Didn't get a normal period I don't recommend this patch. I am no longer using birth control all of them have some side effects sadly."
"This was my first birth control I've tried, the first 24 hours was fine, but than I noticed my arm was sore where the patch was, that lasted about 2 days and than went away. I had the patch on for 1 week and was extremely nauseous to the point where I couldn't eat anything, but also felt like I was starving. Skin is a little irritated where the patch was, the nausea was excruciating and I ended up just taking the patch off. Couple hours later I already felt better."
"Currently on this patch . I'm on my 3rd patch . Patch placement was on the buttocks . The first week got nausea and cramps . 2nd week less nausea more cramping . 3rd week (now) , extreme bloating after eating . Was recently diagnosed with gastritis so I don't know if that has something with it? Gonna give it one more month ."
"This patch has been bullet proof... Had unprotected sex for 3 years and it got the job done. I first put it on my butt, but I got morning sickness at 3 am every day on the dot. I moved the patch to my shoulder and no more sickness. I do spot during periods and bleed after sex. I get very light periods (and they were very heavy before the patch). The worst part? I get extreme ovarian pain in the same ovary monthly to the point where it hurts to cough, sneeze, lift myself up and walk. Been to several doctors and they didn't find anything on my ovary but it feels the size of a golf ball in me. Aside from the ovarian pain, I love it. I feel safe on it. If you get sick, try placing the patch somewhere else."
"So I started this birth control because my periods are so bad, I bleed a lot. This birth control made me extremely sick, I had to go to the hospital. On the first day, I threw up and by the next day, I woke up sicker than a dog, it was terrible. I was having trouble breathing, my chest hurt, I was throwing continuously, my breast ached very much, and my legs went numb, along with my arms. This medication has 60% more estrogen than birth control pills. I would not recommend this medication if you have any type of allergy."
"I used xulane for 3 weeks.  On day 4 using it, I passed out/fainted at work. I have also experienced nausea, cramps, mood swings and a headache that was so bad I threw up."
"This is my first time using birth control ever and the patch was my first choice because my step mama has it and she recommend that I use it cause she didn't want me to forget to take the pill ever day. So let me tell y'all the patch is good. Sometimes I used to have bad headache a lot when I got on the patch. My headaches got worse to the point I didn't want to open my eyes. I never had bad cramps I had them but they wasn't terrible, they were ok. When I started the patch my cramps got so bad I would cry myself to sleep I get back pains and a lot more than now when I'm cramping. I have mood swing all the time now I feel very weak sometimes and nauseous most of the time. I have no skin problems.  The patch is ok sometimes I forget I'm wearing it."
"""Do not, I repeat, do not take this birth control.
I read the bad reviews and figured it would not happen to me because I never have bad medical side effects. 
HOWEVER:
I got sick to my stomach everytime I put on a patch to the point of throwing up.
I lost 10 pounds in 3 weeks due to this.
I got severe mood swings and A LOT of acne.
Not worth it. I lasted 3 months and nothing changed."""
"""The symptoms made me feel pregnant constantly vomiting always wanting to eat always nauseous couldn't really do much for a week and a few days. My breast became tender didn't want to be touched it made me feel horrible
After a week and 2 days I took it off couldn't bare with it anymore"""
"I started the patch a month after having my daughter. I've been on it for about a year with no problems really. Occasionally it starts to peel off or irritates the skin but nothing crazy. I recommend it because it can be hard to remind yourself every day to take a pill. The patch is just a once a week reminder. The past month I've had issues with spotting and cramping like on my period which I've never experienced before while using Xulane. There can be some really scary reviews on here but everyone is different!! I would definitely recommend trying this type of BC to see what works for you."
"Started Xulane a week ago. The day after I put the patch on I began having mood swings. I assumed it was because my period had just started. As the week went on I continued having crying spells and being snappy. By day 5 I noticed discomfort at the patch placement site. I also started feeling dizzy and was super irritable to the point it was affecting my job. Thankfully I didn't have to work day 6. I felt hung over most of the day with a migraine head, dizziness at times, still very irritable and pain starting from the application site and spreading across my low abdomen. As the day went on all of the symptoms intensified. The abdomen pain became so bad I couldn't take it anymore I took the patch off. Within hours I felt better."
"I feel okay about this BC method because I hate taking pills and the other methods I don't really like because of the fact we´d keep them inside our body (the ring, the umbrella, the one thats inside your arm). And then the shot causes thinning of the bones. But the negative thing is that it causes me to be super emotional, and get really bad mood swings. I SOMETIMES get bad migraines and nauseousness. I also feel sensitive to fumes and smells."
"I want to start off by saying I haven't gotten pregnant so that's a major plus with this form of birth control. You tend to see a lot of negative reviews with Xulane as well as other birth control. You'll have to give it a try because that's the only way you'll be able to tell..When I turned 18 I was put on the Xulane patch and I loved it. After three months I switched to an IUD (Mirena) which was the worst thing ever (seriously I don't recommend it especially if you haven't been pregnant before). Since I had bad experiences with Mirena that lead to hospital trips I decided to go back to Xulane. I had a few headaches here and there that I barely noticed while I started it. My acne has gotten a little worse but not bad. Would recommend."
"If you can't remember to take a pill every day this is for you. I put it on my butt and you have to bend over when you place it on to make sure there are no wrinkles. Sometimes around the edges it gets dirty from wearing black pants/jeans. Not sure if low sex drive is attributed to the patch or not?? But that would be my only complaint. Way better than pill and the IUD proved to be super problematic for me so this is best."
"I have been on xulane for 3 months now and I love it. Before I started my periods were bad with headaches, cramping, and heavy flow, after the first month my periods dwindled and now I only need light pads, I rarely cramp and have maybe one headache. However I do get some redness and irritation on my skin, trouble with the patch adhering to my skin and also my eating habits have changed dramatically, sometimes I'll be starving and when I see what I'm about to eat I lose any urge to eat. I would recommend it but be sure you remain aware of your body."
"Started/switched to the patch in Feb 2017 @ 229lbs after giving the nuva ring. Slight itching at patch site (buttocks), noticeable mood swings, and came off one time. Menstruation  consistent, took patch off Sunday, the end of wk3 and by Wednesday menstrual period arrived. No spotting in between. I stared a weight loss program and lost 13lbs in one month (June 2017). On Monday of wk 3 I started spotting (20days post last period) and it was consisted at every use of the bathroom. Only panty liner needed. Called Gyn said its normal, weight loss triggers hormonal changes and to use the patch as usual. Wk 4 no period. new patch cycle. Skin itching insanely! Patch site swelled up as if i was branded. Wk 6 prego w/ #5! 200lbs less effective says label."
"""I have been using this since Tuesday. 
Tuesday I put it on & I noticed it started falling off easy so I put a new one & when I put them on I noticed I have a weird hurting feeling on my arms. I waited & I called planned parent hood they called me today & said it was ok to put another one on & I did on my pelvic & again this one seemed to not stick & I been having pain in my chest & pelvic area & I have a sore  throat & stuffed up nose."""
"This was my first ever birth control method that I tried, I chose it because I wanted something that I could hide from my parents. I was on it for about 3-4 months and never had a problem with it besides maybe being a little moody. About a year ago, I went to see an OBGYN and got a new method, just to try my options. I chose the Nuva Ring, and it was the worst choice I have ever made! I got headaches about two hours after putting my first one in, as well as dizziness and nausea, but I told myself to push through and the side effects would subside. They didn't. I was standing in the middle of a huge, crowded store when I couldn't feel my legs and arms, and was told to go to the emergency room where I was told the Ring gave me Toxic Shock."
"Xulane was my first experience with birth control.  I had been on the patch for a little over 3 months.  I experienced many common (and rare) side effects.  However, they either dissipated within a couple of weeks or became manageable.  This last month though I began to heavily battle depression to the point where I was very anxious and having suicidal thoughts.  I also used to have flawless, clear skin.  Pimples began to cover my face even with a super diligent skincare routine.  My depression did not seem to subside either.  As soon as I got the ok from my doctor to take the patch off my skin began to rapidly bounce back along with my mental health.  It's been a week since being off Xulane and it's such a relief to be rid of it!"
"The patch worked fine until this week. Just recently the patch would start to come off my skin very early. My most recent patch came off 4 days early. What was under the patch is what I am warning you about. My skin was blistered with bubbles, and my skin was raised almost half an inch. It looked as if my skin had a chemical burn from the medication. I slept with some gauze on it and I cleaned it with peroxide. The next day the skin was an open wound and bright red like a burn. It is the most painful thing I've felt in a while. The worst part was being rushed to the ER due to a possible blood clot in the lung (horrible chest pains), had CT scans, blood drawn, and IVs placed all over my body. Before this, I had experienced constant fatigue"
"""Within the first 2 months on the patch, I gain gained 10 lbs. I was also on the whole 30 during the time. Most of it is water weight. During month 3 iIlost 4 of the 10 lbs.
I recently went off the patch. I was constantly dizzy, nauseas, and extremely tired. My mind felt like it was in a fog.
I also end up with to ovarian cyst while on the product."""
"Before I got on the patch I was on the birth control shot. The shot was horrible and it made me gain 20 lbs and I had horrible mood swings that almost cost me my relationship with my boyfriend as well as the extreme depression  issues it gave me. Changing to the patch was the best discussion I could have ever made. I'm much more calm and back  to my normal self. This product is the real deal."
"""Put this on yesterday at 12:00pm on the right side of my hips, and my right leg subsequently felt funny ever since - like it was heavy and cramping, but I had chalked it up to my anxiety disorder playing tricks on me. Then last night while changing my clothes I found a new bruise on that same leg that was giving me trouble. I called my prescriber and yanked the damn thing right off my skin. Leg still feels funny but I have no other symptoms other than that since; but I was very tired, getting cramps, and would get hot flashes on and off. 
Needless to say it's still a mystery with what's happening to me, but I've been scared off this BC for good."""
"This is my first go with birth control; I have been on the patch for 6 months and I am not that impressed. It has resolved some issues but also made some things worse. Before Xulane, I would get debilitating vomiting during my period but cramps were scarce. It was heavy and I would often get headaches. Now that I'm on Xulane, I haven't thrown up at all and headaches are scarce but cramps have been made so much worse. It's to the point where I wake up in the middle of the night because it hurts so bad and I can't just sleep it off. On top of that, I'm getting two periods - very heavy "spotting" a week before it's supposed to come and then another period the week I'm off the patch. I chose the patch because I have a hard time swallowing pills, but I think I'm going to have to reconsider this method and probably switch to pills."
"I have been using xulane for about 2 to 3 months maybe longer I have not gotten pregnant though my boyfriend is fixed next went back into get checked so there is a slim chance. I used the nuva ring before I liked it to a point uncomfortable to me and my boyfriend so I switched to the patch at first it was fine then after a month or less of using it I noticed intense mood swings like bi polar mood swings wanting go off on people for stupid little things being straight up mean to my man and not caring then feel terrible after. I have no energy at all always tired I hate myself like this it's not me I'm going to stop this birth control I hate these bad mood swings"
"I've been on the patch for months now at first there was stomach pain and nausea which I still have some times but now there weight gain , I'm fatigue 24/7 and my menstrual cramps are 10000× worst then they were before."
"I recently switched from birth control pills to the patch. I wanted to be on something that I didn't have to remember to take every day and because I have PCOS the patch was my next best option. I was a little weary of it because I looked up reviews and saw that many women got ill within the first couple of days of being on it. Luckily I haven't had that experience. I think that the main reason is because I went from a pill with very similar to the patch. I didn't give the patch a 10 rating because it can get a little itchy (it feels like you're wearing a bandaid) and sometimes it makes me nervous that it's going to fall off. Overall no side effects so far and I'm so glad that I'm not having to remember to take the pill every day."
"I have been using xulane for the past three years. Within the last 3 months, I have been itching under the patch like crazy. I get these painful bumps underneath them and it keeps a fever while the patch is on it. I figured maybe it was a bad batch and go away. Then the patches started falling off way too easy. I got a hold of my pharmacist who treated me like I didn't know what I was doing and said that only the manufacturer can help me. Xulane I absolutely loved your patch until now. But I have to change to another product because whatever you did to the adhesive is tearing up my skin and is SOOO itchy you feel crazy."
"I would not recommend this birth control to my worse enemy.  I have had terrible headaches, arm and stomach pain, and nausea. I stopped the patch as soon as I started throwing up while driving in my car.  I am thinking about going to the ER, it has been almost 2 hours and I still can not stop vomiting.  This is the worse pain ever. I regret ever using this patch. It is worse than the pills."
"Placing patch on butt instead of other areas may possibly help with nausea."
"First birth control is been on so I had high expectations and they were completely crushed. I've never had headaches in my life but had constant terrible headaches on the patch and awful mood swings. Was constantly emotional and crying and just generally felt awful all around. Within the first 2 weeks I had already started rapidly gaining weight and it didn't slow down at all, within the short span I had taken the patch (3 months?) I went from maintaining around 110-113lbs to maintaining 123-125lbs and not being able to lose weight AT ALL!!! I was worried about weight gain, stuck to my pre bc regime and still gained the weight. Worst part is that even 8 months after I got off the medication I still haven't been able to lose the weight gained"
"I was on xulane for over a year, when I first started the patch I felt nauseous  and had a headache the first 3-5 days. Then after it stopped and I had NO side effects whatsoever. My period has always been 7 days so it didn't fix my long abnormal period but it did fix my acne and it did not effect my mood. Also, I never got pregnant !! This birth control was awesome I only had to change it once a week, the only con was where to place it, during the summer I had to hide it on my buttock and sometimes it would show when my bikini would rise up. and in the winter it was on my arm and sometimes I would forget and thats how my parents found out I was on birth control... also it comes off easily if you take daily baths or swim in the ocean."
"I have used this product for the past three years without issue until the last few weeks when the site where patch was applied became itchy. As time has gone by in few weeks time, the skin underneath gets extremely itchy. I removed it and the skin underneath was left raised, purple, and with peeling skin. It has been 2 weeks and my skin is still purple and the skin has not healed. I tried it on my back and yet again the same thing. I have a red square with leatherlike skin.  I ad to call my obgyn and ask to be changed to another product. I can't walk around with damaged skin. Hoping that eventually the skin will heal. Horrible product!"
"""There are so many women who have trouble that I thought I would write a review. I have tried many birth control options over the years. and ALWAYS got very sick. I recently tried loestrein and was really sick. So my doctor gave me the patch. I had tried ortho eva.  Years ago. And was very sick. Sick to my stomach. Couldn't keep anything down. I'm on my second patch. The first week I was moody and wanted to throw out the patch but it went away. I'm not sick like on the pill. Due to some health problems I think any hormones make me a little tired. So in the future I plan on something permanent but until then the patch is working. I'm not getting super sick. 
So if you are considering trying it. It's worth a try. Everyone is different."""
"Recently diagnosed with PCOS so I decided to start BC only because my periods were non existent. I've been on the patch for a month. So far I love it, I am way more tired than before but that's about it."
"I've been on Xulane for several months now and I hadn't had a problem until February, when the patch started to give me huge raised rashes, I tried it on multiple spots on my body, tried washing with different soaps, using different lotions, nothing worked.  I feel like they must've switched the adhesive recently, because this problem happened out of the blue and wasn't isolated to one patch (I even got a new package, and still had the same issue occur).  I'm really disappointed because I loved this birth control, but I suppose I'll just have to find something new when I have the time.  It's really ruined all the skin I've put it on. The skin where the rashes appeared seems to have scarred."
"""I've been on the Xulane patch for about a year and a half now.. 
Pros..
NO NEW BABIES!!
Cons.. (based off my own experience)
Migraines, moodiness, itchy skin, tiredness, 
Oh how I miss Ortho Evra!!"""
"Last year, I had surgery for benign endometrial hyperplasia and a baseball-sized ovarian cyst.  I was officially diagnosed with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome when I was 19 and this is a common side effect.  To prevent further problems, my doctor recommended hormone therapy but I haven't done well with any of the pills or the shot - too many bad side effects (sciatica, mood swings, etc).  I was on Ortho-Evra in my early 20s and never noticed any problems so I decided to try it again.  Unfortunately, though, it was discontinued in the USA and Xulane was its generic.  I've been on it for 3 months and I've been miserable the whole time.  I stopped today and now I feel like I have the flu."
"""Have been on patch for over 16 years. First Ortho Evra; few years back Zulane generic brand. I had zero side effects, since the first use. I have tried the pill for a few months not good since I forget. The Ring that made me gain weight in a matter of 2 months so immediately got off that. Tried the pill again to get lower estrogen but again it is hard to remember to take it. So the patch it is for me.
All bodies are unique, we all react differently.  I am glad I was able to process this form of BC without any problems. I did try to get off BC for approx 6 months and my body didn't like it, I started to gain weight get bloated, so I attribute my weight control /hormone control to the patch!!"""
"Been on xulane 3 months starting today. The first month went great no side effects, noticed my boobs grew a bit. When the second month started it was going well until I applied the second patch, I had terrible headaches, nausea, extremely light headed, and the worst part extreme stomach pains . I had to remove the patch because of the pain. I almost went to the ER. I applied the third path of the month the following week and still had some symptoms but they only lasted 2/3 days. I applied the first patch of the third month this Monday that just passed and the extreme stomach pain returned along with vomiting & headaches. I've overall decided I'm going to stop xulane and hopefully find a birthcontrol that won't  send me to the hospital."
"Been on patch going on 2 months. I love it. Notice boobs are getting bigger and a little sensitive. I place the patch on my buttock and put waterproof band aids to prevent it from unsticking due to bathing. I also learned to attach new patch before removing old 1 it decrease the sick feeling. I take one a day vitamins to prevent feeling sleepy. So far so good."
"I've been on Ortha Evra & Xulane for going on 6 years now. They switched to the off-brand a few years ago and I never noticed a difference. I haven't had any complications or bad side effects from it. The only thing I've noticed is if I quit taking it, my period quits coming. I just recently tried to stop in January, my period came that month. Skipped February completely, and passed my period date for this month. So I got back on it to hopefully regulate it out again. Not sure what to do if I wanna stop taking it and try to get pregnant again tho."
"""I've been on the patch for two years now and have had a pretty positive experience. I choose the patch because unlike the pill it was only once a week and didn't have many horrifying side effects like some other options out there.  I place my patch on my stomach near my belly button area, per the instructions. I find  that on my skin it stays put but removal can be a bit painful hence why I always remove it in the shower while using plenty of soap. My periods while in the patch are short and sweet and to the day. I usually have 2 days of light bleeding and two medium days to end my cycle. I did notice some weight gain, but nothing crazy and nothing I worried myself with. 
Just remember every body reacts differently to birth control!"""
"I was using the birth control ring for 5+ years.  In May, 2016 I switched to the Ortho Evra patch. I was given the Xulane birth control patch, the generic form of Ortho Evra. I've not had a single problem. . .  UNTIL NOW!  The first week of March I put a new patch on my lower abdomen. Within 6-8 hours I had a raised, burning, itchy rash under the patch.  I'd never had this problem before no matter where I place the patch. I removed that patch and put a new patch on my upper shoulder. Within 5 hours another raised, itchy burning rash under the patch. I removed that patch. Now I have two square raised, red, burning, itchy rash spots!!  Needless to say I have to stop Xulane. Not sure what to use now."
"This is my first time on xulane patch I been on it for 7 days now, boy I tell ya I been feeling really sick like flu symptoms and nausea.. I can say it sticks on very well you just can't be soaking for an hour in water I take showers it works best on my buttocks.. I don't know anything about the periods yet since it is my first week"
"This patch made me throw up three times the first night I put it on, my boobs are getting bigger and more sensitive, and this patch makes me feel tired all the time "
"I have been on this almost 4 years, but I do not remember any side effects when I switched over from a pill. I have had acne since I was 12 but now I get maybe one pimple when I'm on my off week. I have not experienced weight gain that I attribute to the patch. My main complaint is my libido does not exist anymore and sometimes I get moody, but I feel like that is normal for women. I personally have had a great experience with it and am thankful that it has been free for me! The application area is itchy sometimes but it's not a huge inconvenience."
"I've been on the patch one month, a complete cycle. I started after my first ever miscarriage, so I was a little weary and nervous of how my periods were going to be since I have been bleeding off and on the past 2-3 months! Xulane works amazing for me!! My period is shorter and lighter but I still spot a few times which was expected. But I have literally had no other side effects! I forget it is there! I alternate putting it on each side of my back, above my pants line but below my bra line so no irritation. It has never fallen off, even with bathtubs I had no issues. I have seen a lot of negative comments but I truly think it is just how your body will handle it. The patch is amazing for me, but the pill makes me so sick. I recommend!!"
"I have been on the patch for about 3 months now, I used to have severe headaches every day before starting Xulane. Now I rarely get them - only on my period. I also have not had any issues with the patch coming off, if anything it is hard to take off at the end of each week and actually quite painful! Also, the week before my period and during my period, I have intense mood swings and become extremely irritable and emotional. So, 2 weeks out of 4 in every month, I feel pretty terrible. I am considering stopping the patch completely, as it is becoming increasingly difficult to manage."
"Would not recommend. My doctor put me on the patch because I had a hard time remembering to take the pill to help control my reoccurring ovarian cysts.  I am now in the hospital with severe blood clots from my belly button to just below my knee in my vein.  My leg is swollen and I am in horrible pain after 9 days in the hospital, so far. I would recommend NOT using this patch!"
"At first, like most people say, the symptoms were terrible. Abdominal and back pain, slight nausea, mood swings, general foggy feeling in my brain. After a couple of days, the symptoms decreased and now all I experience is some mood instability the day I replace my patch. I've never had a problem with it falling off, though it does tend to get fuzzy around the edges from your clothes. It does kind of kill your sex drive at first, but I feel like I'm back to normal now. Hooray for regular periods and no babies!"
"""I could even last two days with the Xulane.
I had the Evra patch years ago and liked it so I thought I'd give this patch a try. 
Literally after have it on for a couple of hours I got a migraine and then woke up to medium-severe cramps that lasted all day along with the headaches and then nausea. I literally felt sick to my stomach. After taking it off I was able to feel a little better, no more major cramps but still feel sick. Hoping this goes away soon. 
I'm absolutely done with BC. Rather be celibate.
Oh and I forgot to mention I literally gained 3/4lbs within 2 damn days"""
"This is the third time I am submitting a review for Xulane. I was approaching 1 year using this patch, but discontinued it this past Friday. Over the past 6 months, I have had high blood pressure readings (extremely high). The only change I have made over the past year is switching from Ortho Evra to Xulane. My Doctor thinks this is causing my high blood pressure. Not only that, but I have been having headaches, which I never had prior to taking this patch. Not sure if anyone else has had an increase in blood pressure, since they started this patch? I hoped I was not the only one. Anyone else?"
"I absolutely love it now. I've been on the patch approximately 4 months. The first couple months I experienced emotions going haywire, minor headaches and one period that I thought I was going to die or just felt like dying because it was horrifically pain. I also experience frequent episodes of indigestion. I honestly think your body has to adjust to the hormones because the previous two months the side effects are gone!  I haven't experienced an acne blemish which was common to occur during my period. My periods have lightened shortened and pain free. I've had one incident with patch falling off the day before replacing it. Oh and no kids! Overall I give it a two thumbs up!"
"I used the brand name Ortho Evra for years!! Loved it! no problems ever! Now I am forced to use this Xulane patch, and it is just NOT the same. 1. My period starts while Im on the third patch every month. Ortho, it was 5 days exactly after removing. 2. Taking a bath it comes off! Then its not as sticky. Never ever had an ortho patch come off. 3. I have 2 week long periods now. I used to have only 5 day periods. I just don't like this generic patch whatsoever!!!!"
"I've been on this almost 3 months and the only cons are cost and when I change it each week my emotions are off for a day or 2. You have to place in an area where your pants or bra doesn't rub so it can stay on right. My appetite has definitely increased but I'm not a big girl and I can control that. Love the convenience. The best placement for me is my butt cheek. I used to pay for this but found a clinic that covers it at no cost."
"I have been on the Xulane patch for 3 months now. During the first month, I did experience some pregnancy side effects (AM nausea, food/smell sensitivity, painful breasts) especially on my patch change day. I believe it is normal as your body is getting used to the amount of hormones you are receiving. When it came time for my 4th week (off week) I did have a severe migraine that lasted up until I began my period, 2-3 days after removing the patch. It was so debilitating that I did consider discontinuing the patch. However, things returned to normal with my period and I did notice a lighter period that lasted only 3 days."
"Have been taking Xulane for about 8 months, it's been great. Spotting during the first two months, tired with some increase in appetite until my body adjusted. I do notice mild headaches during days (1-2 times per week). Of course, breasts are swollen, which isn't a terrible side effect. I've had no nausea, no weight gain, and my mood seems more balanced. I have a history of depression, and have not had any issues outside of baseline while using Xulane. I have fewer PMS symptoms- less depressed, less irritable, don't want to run people over then cry because I'm a horrible person for thinking that :/ It's been very effective."
"I got pregnant while on this damn Xulane patch. Not effective for me at all.."
"I started the patch 2 days ago. I thought it was fine and everything. My doctor didn't tell me the side effects of tell me I would have any at all. Past 2 days I haven't had any other symptoms but this past moring I woke up and I couldn't handle it. I tried to stay asleep but I felt like I had to throw up. I got up and ran to the bathroom and puked for a good 10 minutes. Now I know why I had so many headaches. Glad I quit before it got worse tho. I don't like it and I wouldn't recommend it."
"My first time starting any kind of birth control (just to regulate my period, not really as a contraceptive) and I could only last half way through my third week, the increase in anxiety, depression along with the pregnancy like symptoms were debilitating. I just took my patch off today because I couldn't take it anymore. I have terrible gastrointestinal problems, feel sore and tender, dizzy, have headaches and the worst part is the nausea. It's been gradually increasing since I started and has finally gotten to the point where I can't leave my bed. My first patch fell off after three days so I put a new one on my thigh instead of my side and that made it not come off anymore but the mix of mood swings and painful symptoms are too much."
"I started the Xulane patch two months ago. I have to say that it has been a great experience so far. I myself read through these reviews before starting the patch and I was terrified of the experience I would have. I have not gained any weight. I have not had migraines or even mild headaches. The patch does not itch nor does it leave a rash or any type of bump. It does leave a residue on the outer ring from where it catches your clothing and collects fuzz. I have not experienced any nausea. It has been smooth sailing. My period is drastically lighter and I don't get ill or experience extreme cramps. I have to say I'm a huge fan of the patch. It has even increased my sex drive, because I feel so comfortable now that I have it."
"""Occasionally got a rash but nothing time or some hydrocortisone couldnt fix. 
Loved the convenience. 
Didn't love the few times it fell off and had to reapply or tape it back on. 
Overall, works great for my very busy lifestyle. Grad student, mom of 2."""
"So I've been taking this for about a month and a half now and I have recieved pregnancy symptoms of course. Even when I took the pill I felt them but that patch is worse I learned putting the patch on my thigh doesn't irritate my skin unless I  put it any where on my upper body overall now that im getting used to it I really do like it better then reminding myself  of taking a pill and I actually started loosing weight from it"
"""I have been using Xulane for around 10 months. For the first seven months the birth control worked great! I noticed that I was much easier to get along with, periods were on a schedule, and my breasts appeared bigger! I didn't experience the weight gain or hardly any negative side effects. The most annoying thing was that the patch would sometimes fall off.
Fast forward to three months, I am bloated all the time and experienced a weight gain of about 15 pounds. I literally cannot stop crying and tend to bust out in tears at even a sad thought. The worst part is the mood swings. I finally decided enough was enough and threw them away. I will be requesting the birth control pill next time I am at the doctor."""
"I started using the patch around 2 months ago. I loved it at first. I needed the hormones because I have hypothyroidism and I needed more estrogen. I mainly took it because my health condition caused me to have acne all the time, 2 periods a month, & I started growing facial hair rapidly. I tried this and at first it was pretty cool, my hair stopped growing so fast, my periods were predictable, my acne was gone, and my small boobs grew. But all of a sudden after 2 weeks I started getting crazy mood swings and sad.  I was snappy and had so much attitude. Then I started noticing that sleep was getting difficult. And I ended up gainingweight like crazy the last 3 weeks on it. itchy everywhere. Took it off today, & very nauseous. Not worth it."
"My first time taking birth control and I chose the patch. I was prescribed Xulane. I hate it. I already had a slight acne problem, it didn't improve it. It made my breasts tender all the time. I was spotting for a whole week, which was expected. The main issue from being on this patch, was my mood swings. I felt depressed, sad, I was crying for no reason, and then I would be happy again. My boyfriend hates it because of my mood swings. I've been on it for 3 months but not anymore."
"Nightmare! I was on the xulane birth control patch for 2 full months. I have felt like a complete Zombie with no energy at all. I can feel depression, anxiety and mood swings getting worse. I'm starting to get headaches and nausea which I have never experienced before. The patch doesn't stick very well on the skin. I've gotten rashes and it's always itchy at the site. I'm giving up on birth control because the crippling mental side effects are not worth it. I'm going back to condoms forever. BEWARE the mental/emotional side effects sneak up on you over time."
"I did a review on Xulane 8 months ago. I was taking the Ortho Evra patch and had to switch to Xulane due to it being discontinued. When I did my review, I was on the patch for 1 month. The patch is still very convenient. Increase is sex drive, no vaginal dryness, and light periods - no cramping. I am starting to get headaches for the past month. Seeing its a side effect of this medication (never got them before ) hoping they go away. Other than that, no complaints."
"Why am I experiencing pregnancy symptoms? And why can't I sleep anymore? Not lookin to good Xulane. I just started two weeks ago.."
"The patch causes itchiness but after a while it goes away. I noticed my breast are more full and perkier which is nice but I did notice I am more emotional on the patch and a headache here and there. This patch works great other than that. I recommend this to someone who doesn't like using pills and to someone who prefers a much easier and simple method."
"Been on Xulane patch a week and my vaginal dryness from the depot is completely gone! My libido has greatly increased too. Before, it would take everything in me to even want to have sex, but not anymore! The only off thing is that the past two nights after dinner I get very nauseated and have lots of indigestion and burping. My cravings for kit-Kats has also increased, which tells me that it really does mimic some pregnancy signs. I bled almost every day on the depot and now that I'm on the patch I feel great!"
"Every since I've started on Xulane I have Not been able to sleep. Has anyone else experienced this side effect....I don't fall asleep until, like 3am"
"I have been on Xulane for about 7 months now and I absolutely love it! At first, yes, it is horrible while the body is adjusting to it. There are constant headaches and what look like signs of early pregnancy, but after a while it works perfect! It's worth the beginning experience. I have noticed that my breasts grew rounder and fuller, no acne, no vaginal dryness, predictable periods, light periods, low cramping and best of all, no unplanned children!"
"This medication works great, my cycle has never been regular but on this I can pinpoint the day I start and end my cycle. I do get headaches the first day I put on my new patch so i just take Advil as a preventive and that seems to do the job.. most of the time. This does help control acne as well, and have not experienced any weight gain and I have used it for over a year and a half. The patch site can itch but my skin seemed to get used to it after a month or so. I use it on my lower back above my pant line and switch sides weekly. This seems to be the best spot, except when I get asked what it is. lol! I was on the Depo shot for a year and absolutely hated it, and can't remember to take a pill daily so this is a GREAT alternative."
"The only negative thing I can say about the patch is that my period for the first two months lasted a little longer than usual but other than that I've had normal periods. I've noticed that I'm a lot curvier now and my boobs seem to be a little perkier. I love this patch! I prefer it over the nuva-ring or the pill."
"I have been on Xulane for over a year now and so far so good. I have found it easier to cry and during my period i'm in pain with backaches (basically my whole body hurting). I had the nexplanon for 7 months before Xulane and it was horrible. I didn't have pain or cramps before trying BC. With nexplanon I had horrible never ending spotting/bleeding for 6  months and mood swings,mostly anger, i wasn't in control of myself so this was a great change."
"Y'all missed the whole point of this question! It was about that rashes. I use the xulane patch too my first time on bc and yes it does leaves rashes and itch the only thing I can think of now is to not put it in the same spot as last time. I just wonder if the rash is ever going to go away"
"I started the patch on Friday and by saturday night I had started crying uncontrollably for no reason at all. This has not stopped and today I'm missing school because of that and the gnarly cramps I'm also experiencing. I plan on calling my doctor today to see if I should try something different or wait and see if everything levels out."
"I switched from Nuva Ring which made my vaginal very dry, irritated non stop light bleeding. I also developed gross acne. 2 hours after I put this patch on I stopped bleeding. My acne is clearing up and my vaginal stays very very wet. I am noticing it's easier for me to cry and I'm sleepy most days, but my sexual arousal has been spiked and hasn't dulled my ability to orgasm like my previous birth controls did. Overall I'm happy. I'm hoping the sky high estrogen content doesn't cause harm. I need the estrogen though."
"I love it honestly it's just that my skin is really irritated for the first couple of days. No matter where I put it I'm constantly scratching. It really is better than birth control pills because I only have to worry about it once a week. It's a myth about the whole use a patch on your patch free week if you don't want to get your period. I still ended up getting my period the next week so it's not like you won't get your period at all. I must admit that it did shorten my period and I don't really get cramps anymore. I still get acne during that time of month but I've always been like that so I don't blame the patch. Overall it's great I've been using it for over a year."
"This is the first review I've ever wrote in life. I say that to say, this is how horrible Xulane is, so bad that I had to write a review about it. I started the patch 3 weeks ago. I was very excited because I didn't have to take pills, which means you have to remember to take them everyday. With the patch you just have to wear/change them once a week. First week of using the patch I notice a difference in my body. I was very nauseous, migraines was almost everyday, and loss of appetite. Second week, I was very very emotional, I would cry for no reason along with being very moody. I'm literally nauseous everyday now, I have vomit a few times. Long story short, I have pregnant symptoms. STAY AWAY FROM THE PATCH!! It's horrible!"
"So I've been on xulane for about four months. I'm overall satisfied with this birth control. It's never fallen off I had no increase in weight and my breasts were a lot perkier and rounder. My periods didn't change. The only thing I noticed was I seemed to lose weight in my butt and thigh area. I'm not sure if this is due to this medication. I've always had a round butt and gained my weight there but since using xulane I've lost that curve   Has anyone else experienced this?"
"I love this birth control. I got no acne on this and it made my boobs grow a full cup size no lie the only thing I didn't like was I kept getting scared that it would fall off but what i do is when i switch it i put the new one on where the old one was so its extra sticky (don't do this if your skin gets irritated or red) but yeah I'm switching back cause i miss it and no pill i've tried made my skin as clear as xulane does lol!"
"""I was very apprehensive with the patch because of the mixed reviews but I am overall happy with it. 
The first 3 weeks the patch itched SO badly I almost said ""screw it"" and switched methods but I'm glad I didn't. I no longer itch. The patch adhesive is okay. One fell off a few days early but I just let my cycle start then. 
I believe my periods have became much lighter."""
"""I was only on the patch for a month. I thought it would be a miracle because I began to struggle to remember to take a daily pill. I came to this website, read reviews, decided I'd still try it. Wish I hadnt.
I had insane mood swings and did not feel like myself at all. I was extremely emotional, unreasonable. I felt angry and depressed all of the time. I'd been on the pill for 8 years with no problem, except remember to take it due to a schedule change. The patch was a different story.
I completed my 3 weeks of patch, 1 week for bleeding and promptly got back on the pill. My concern now is, I'm almost a week later starting and I'm normally like clock work. I've never been late in my life. Apparently this is common after the patch."""
"Xulane patch worked well for me, cleared up my acne very quickly, but fell off very easily. Also seemed to increase my appetite, so it's important to exercise when you're on the patch. I started using the patch because I felt it would be easier then taking a pill everyday, but patch can be a slight nuisance. The best to put it would probably be on your butt. Overall I thought it was great if it could just stick on properly."
"Been on it for 10 months.  Had mood swings and on and off bleeding the first month, but after that it worked great ( i did do the quick start method) i usually keep it on my shoulders and i hardly remember its there once i've applied it.  only once had it peel, and my pharmacist simply gave me a new box (he explained that he told the manufacturer it had malfunctioned and they will send a replacement)  i switch patches on friday, and my period always starts monday.  it ends by friday when i apply the next patch. period is now light and pretty much cramp free, i barely notice.  as far as birth control, my boyfriend and i very rarely use condoms anymore and i have had no issues with pregnancy."
"I haven't had any harsh side effect but I can't get a single patch to adhere to my skin for longer than two days! That's the on benefit I loved with Ortho Evra. I just stuck it to my butt cheek and went about my life for a week. There have been times in the last 5 months that I haven't even noticed the fell off untill my period started early. I'm currently switching to the Nuva Ring. Let's hope it stays put - it should."
"I started xulane in May 2016 all was good. I get very nauseous at times dizzy back ache this month I've been feeling very bloated and upset stomach, I took it off for a while because it made me very depressed, and a zombie I normally have lots of energy now I am a bumb lol. Ok i have to force myself out of bed, increase in breast size that's a plus so far but everything else i hate can't wait to get back on copper i.u.d."
"I have been on xulane for 11 months, five years ago I was on the older version which was ortha evra. With the old version I never had any complications, however with this new version xulane the only problem I have encountered is the patch doesn't stick properly to my skin. I have woke up with it stuck to my sheets, stuck on the inside of my shirt sleeve, and once I have no idea where it went it was there one minute and three hours later no patch to be found. I had to go to my pharmacy twice the first time the pharmacist instructed me to put tape on the patch, which it says in the instructions NOT TO DO THIS, another time the gave me a new free replacement box. Other then that it works perfectly, easy to remember & I barely get a period :)"
"This is horrible i never used to get cramps and BAM they came i was vomiting I couldn't get up they were terrible! I went on vacation and i kept on vomiting and I wasn't even on my period! This made me have mood swings   and i would get dizzy for hours during the day 10 out of 10That i do not recommend this is terrible"
"I have been on Xulane for 8 months. The first few months included cramping, nausea, and terrible migraines after removing the patch for my patch free week. I gained a few pounds and my body has become more womanly and curvy. My boobs have gotten larger and more perky, and my butt has gained weight. Acne is very minimal, if any shows up. Now, my period comes exactly 3 days after patch removal and around the same time of day, which is great! However, I get nauseous sometimes and a little crampy before my period. My period has not gotten any lighter or shorter. Occasionally, I get super bad migraines the day after patch removal. I've had a little spotting after my period. I absolutely love that I can just apply it to my skin!! So convenient"
"I switched from the Nexplanon implant simply because I heard of a recall on it and I couldn't take the constant dizziness and headaches .I used orthro evra before and it was lovely but, this isn't at all. The first night, I felt like I couldn't sleep with that being said I was up for 3 days with absolutely no sleep, walking around like an insane person. Severe pain (hunger pangs) that I think contribute to the weight gain, nausea and breast pain. I took it off. I tried it again and the physical side effects have faded somewhat but depression anxiety and mood swings are back in my life 10x worse..."
"I've recently started the patch due to health reasons - not contraception (although it is a win win). I haven't been on bc in over 10 years, so I have nothing really to compare it to. However, I will say this: I've found that the Xulane patch makes me a bit nauseous at times, but those phases never last more than 10 mins, although those 10 minutes can be very intense. It gets to the point where I'm salivating, extremely warm, and feel as if I am about to hurl (but I never do). That typically happens twice a day. I've also found that my usual problems with constipation have diminished since on the patch (I no longer think that is coincidence). My breasts are also more full (plus for me, lol) but also more sensitive; minor weight gain as well"
"I was on OrthoEvra birth control patch for ELEVEN years before a generic was available. Now that Mylan Xulane is the only birth control patch available for the past two years, I have been forced to use this. I have never been so disappointed in my life. I never had any problems in eleven years with the OrthoEvra brand. The patch never itched, came off, caused cramping. Absolutely no side effects. When I was forced to switch to Mylan Xulane birth control patch, I immediately started itching around the patch site (no matter where I put it), and it always resulted in a rash. A quick shower could make this patch fall off. It is absolutely devastating. I am now also bleeding between periods. I'm currently searching for alternative birth control."
"I was on the patch for about 4 years and I absolutely loved it. They switched from the Ortho Evra to the Xulane and I loved them both. Xulane is just a little smaller and sticks a lot better. I had no bad side effects, I bled for about 3 days every month after taking off my patch. I recently switched to Skyla and I am having horrible cramps with it. I am looking forward to switching back to the patch soon."
"I gave this patch a 3 because I want to be as honest as possible. I'm 26 years old, and switched from oral bc to the patch 4 months ago. Only pros; not having to take a pill everyday and that I'm not pregnant. The cons however are endless. I'm always tired. Im normally an active person but now all I want to do is stay in bed. Severe mood swings; my sister and boyfriend have pointed out that I'm always either depressed or behaving like an angry monster. Ive put on 15 pounds and my breast have gone up a cup size (not good since I was already a DD). I never got cramps before the patch; now they're so bad I can barely move for the first 2 days of my period. I also have severe back pain even though I haven't had any injury whatsoever."
"After being on the depo shit for a year, I absolutely hated it! Gained 30 pounds in a year, bled for 6 months straight, mood swings, pain durning sex, and no sex drive. So far I love the Xulane patch . I've only been on it for about 3 weeks, but the only side affect I've gotten was breast sensitive. Only thing I dislike is sometimes i feel as if the patch will fall off."
"Okay every gyn doctor is going to tell you how the side effects will work but it's different for every person. It may work for some people and may not work for others. My Gyn said that even if this patch will not work for me we can always switch and try to find something else. And there are always other options. For example the long term Birth Controls. But every person is going to react to it differently. So if the patch isn't right for you move on and try the pill or the ring."
"This patch worked amazing at first. Then after a few months I would get bad headaches, double vision, dizziness and even disgusting skin rashes at the patch site once summer rolled around. It does prevent pregnancy but I don't see myself sticking to this. The cons outweigh the pros."
"""I tried xulane, pros helps with acne & you only have to worry about it once a week.
Cons, extreme breast pain, rash and/ or bruising where i removed the patch."""
"I used the patch for 5 months. I really enjoyed not having to take a pill every day, and it was extremely effective.  Yet the mood swings where HORRIBLE,  I am a fairly unemotional woman but the patch made me unbelievablely weepy for no reason at all. My boyfriend of 4 was kind enough to point out that that wasn't normal me behavior. As for the rest of the detials, I had no issues with headaches, nausea, or breast tenderness.  The patch left a bit of a residue after you took it off and constantly pulled up on the corners, but I only really had one time when I was seriously worried that it might fall off. Very offten there was fabric residue along the edge of the patch and I would usually have ingrown hairs or small pimpels growing under it."
"I can't say enough good things! To start off with I run low on Estrogen, and the patch is packing! My libido is back up, cramps gone, not to mention perky breasts! I feel fantastic. I've tried so many forms of BC from the IUD(which is god awful), to the patch and the patch really is great.  It's easy to remember and apply.  I rotate it from one but cheek to the other and it stays on just fine.  If you are someone who does well on Estrogen based BC, I recommend the patch."
"I was on xulane for about a year and it seemed to work well for me. After deciding to go off of it in February to see if my bleeding had gone to normal, everything was thrown off. I've gotten my period about twice since then at very weird times and that was only in the beginning. It is now July and I haven't had a period since April and I am not on any form of contraception. Not having a period would be nice and all, but I still experience PMS, mood swings, and extremely bad cramps; yet not bleeding at all. I guess this would be okay if you're not planning on getting pregnant soon after going off (I'm not considering that for quite a few years)."
"""I was on the patch for almost 6 six months and it at first it helped but after the second period it didn't work I got really bad cramps I was bledding heavy like I did before followed by every other period after that.  i was on birth control and my obgyn switched me to the patched because I gained weight 20 lbs in a year! 
Followed by a lecture of how to eat right, well switching to the patch I lost 4 lbs! 
Also I got very headaches from the patch and it just couldn't take it anymore I had to switch back to the pills!"""
"Xulane has been effective as far as keeping me from getting pregnant. However, I have an appointment with my obgyn to switch to a new method asap. I was on Ortho Evra for about 14 years and absolutely loved it. I experienced no side effects. When I was switched by my insurance to Xulane, the symptoms have multiplied. Started with lack of sex drive and intermittent bleeding. More recently, the cramps have become debilitating and I have them 2-3 weeks a month. I feel bloated all the time these days. And upon reading everyone else's reviews, I am beginning to wonder if these extra 5-10 lbs are the result of this medicine as well since I haven't been eating anymore calories than normal."
"When I started xulane, I had many reactions. I experienced severe mood swings, and Xulane increased my depression and anxiety. I also experienced redness and itching at application site, which stopped happening about a month later. I experience nausea, headaches, and severe cramping during times of suspected ovulation. My breasts increased in size and veins are more prominent. They are also more tender. Sex drive has also decreased. My period comes at expected time and sometimes last 4 days-6. All in all, I like the idea of not having to remember an oral contraceptive everyday! I change it three times a month and the fourth week I leave it off. All forms of birth control have there weak points, but I think xulane works for me."
"""I didn't notice any physical changes & I wasn't any moodier. I'd never gotten a yeast infection & never got cramps & that all continued to not happen. My periods were actually more regular and slightly lighter. Being on the patch was, for the most part, uneventful. 
My only con is that it invariably caused vaginal dryness. Prior to using this, I didn't have problems with arousal or lubrication (I'm in my mid-20s). With this, I immediately noticed that I felt pain and stinging in my vagina after sex. This sometimes caused me to lose interest in sex in anticipation of the pain. Lube definitely helped but even just a couple of months off the patch (IUD now), I'm back to my normal self. Aside from that, I would recommend this"""
"""When I first starting using Xulane, i would get really bad nausea for 2 months. Now I am on my 5th month using and still have spotting in between my period. Also gained 5-6 pounds so far. I hate this patch. Thinking of switching to something else soon.
Only reason I chose this because it's the easiest, i only have to change it once a week."""
"I would give the birth control patch a 10 , only because I were previously on depo for 6 months and I were bleeding the whole entire time . My doctors decided to switch me over to the birth control pills that didn't help , so I decided to get on the patch within 3 days my bleeding and spotting ended , yeah I experience some side effects such as back pain and nausea but it doesn't last a long time and it's bearable ."
"I started using this recently and its the worst, bleeding does not stop even though I stopped using it after one week because I am anemic. I had Ortho before and had no problem at all but this is just horrible. What is the point of it if I can't have intercourse because of the heavy bleeding. I hate it and will not use it again, I think I am going to have to go to the ring."
"I've been on Xulane on and off as my postpartum method of birth control. I don't experience bloating, weight gain, rashes or nausea which is good. However, I noticed that after wearing a patch for 3 days to a week, I start to get yeast infection symptoms. I've gotten about three yeast infections while using Xulane. It works, I just wish it wouldn't give me an uncomfortable infection. I used to use the Orthro Evra patch which is 20x better and by far the best patch in my opinion."
"So, I started  the patch late January and at first I felt terrible! Slowly, the terrible feeling went away and I started my first period with the patch. The cramps were so bad! I couldn't do anything for the first day because moving made the cramping stonger. Also, my bleeding went from 3 tampons a day too using 2 tampons every eight hours and still leaking. I tried working out and eating healthier because my doctor told me that could help. NOPE! My bleeding has slowly become even worst. The only good thing about the patch is I'm not pregnant!!"
"I had terrible skin irritation and rashes from the patch. I still have some scars. I think it also caused weight gain."
"I have been on Xulane for nearly 6 months. I was on a pill before I used this patch. The pills weren't good for me because I would simply forget to take them! Here I am now 6 months later with scars & blisters on my arms & legs where the patch was located. It is absolutely terrible & I don't recommend it at all! Every body is different but if you are sensitive to adhesive products this isn't for you! & also they don't stay on for a week they usually fall off so be careful!!"
"I have been on the patch, Xulane, for over a year and this is my second time being on it due to insurance changes. Can wear it on your upper back/arm or abdomen. I usually switch from my left/right side of my abdomen to hide it under my pants each week for 3 weeks and then remove it for my off week (my period.) It's easier knowing when I am going to start by using the stickers that come in the box each month I am able to apply to my home calendar that no one sees (then there are stickers you place on the patch so the third patch you know to call in your refill.) It's a good system but I sometimes start my period in the middle of my third patch instead of my off week. My libido is down somewhat. Doesn't always stay stuck to my body (scary.)"
"I just started the patch and I take it with vitamins. Maybe trying this way is more successful."
"I've been using Xulane for about a year now and before getting switched to Xulane I used Ortho for about a year and a half, sometimes the patch starts to lift on the sides but that was with both Ortho and Xulane. The only side effects I've experienced with both types of patches is cramps. I didn't get cramps with my period until I began using the patches. Other than that I haven't had any other problems with either brand"
"I was using ortho evra for 11 years and I absolutely loved it, I had no complications at all, when it was discontinued my doctor prescribed xulane, the first month was fine then I the following month I bled for 2 months straight with ache, pain, fatigue and severe cramping. I never had cramping or any problem prior to taking this contraceptive. Every week when I apply the patch I started spotting and become fatigue with cramping, after about 8 month I applied it and there was no spotting so I thought finally it started working, well I couldn't be more wrong. I WAS PREGNANT, YES PREGNANT. Still in disbelief. I absolutely hate xulane"
"""I really like this patch. It took about 4 months for my period to be normal, because I would have spotting in between. Now I just have my regular period on the patch-free week.
I noticed less cystic breakouts. No weight gain/loss, or drop in sex drive. I definitely cry a lot more about random things. There is a sticky dark residue after you peel it off due to lint and stuff. Just peel it off before you shower and scrub the residue off. 
I prefer to place the patch on the left or right of my stomach, just cause I feel it's more secure and less likely to peek out.
I never tried Orthro Evra, because it is no longer offered, so I can't compare. Overall, this patch really works for me, and I recommend you give it a try for at least 6 months."""
"I've been on the Xulane patch for a year now. When I first started it everything was great. My periods got lighter, I had a moderate libido, I wasn't nauseous at all and had almost zero negative effects. After about four/five months of use I started getting morning sickness after having my period and putting the patch back on. Now I also have unusual chest pain, back and neck pain all in one and my mood swings are crazy. my periods have also gotten heavier and my cramps worse than when I first started. I tried switching to the progestin only pill but because of the dramatic hormone level change, I was not able to use this very long. Five stars for Xulane because it's done its job at not getting me pregnant."
"I'm currently on my six month with xulane. I previously has ortho evra which I absolutely loved. However after it was discontinued I took 6 months of the pill and one month of no birth control to reset my hormones. I remember how much I loved ortho evra and how happy I was all the time. With xulane I have mood swings regularly and I exprience some weakness in my extremities sometimes. But I don't have irregular bleeding or migraines. I originally loved the ortho evra patch because my regular monthly migraines disappeared. Now I only get them about once every three or four months. I am a bit more irritable then my last patch. Maybe in a few months ill find an alternative patch. But for now I'm doing well on xulane."
"Before the patch I was on the shot for two years. I decided to take it off after gaining weight (FROM 130 TO 160) and I was experiencing really bad pain in my lower abs and back at random times. I went to the hospital and they said everything looked fine so I suspected it was the birth control so I switched. So far this is my 2nd month on this patch. got my period when I was supposed to and it is so light and exact timing! the only bad side effect is I get nauseous at random times but once I eat I'm fine. no more weight gain yet, my appetite seems to be normal if not less eating than before. my boobs are always hurting and its annoying. Take my bra off right when I get home cuz I cant take it!! hopefully that will end soon!"
"I do not like the patch at all. I'd used Ortho Evra version years ago in college, and the only downside was the constant tiredness and mood swings. THIS version of the patch has produced the worst body systems, ever. The constant gas/bloating, heavy periods with cramps that last over a week, constant hunger/weight gain, and the mood swings. I've gained roughly 15lbs, but the kicker is that I do not eat a lot. I don't even have dairy in my normal diet and I do not eat fried food or junk food. It just seems like my body is packing on the weight, still. The only reason why I even gave it a 3 is because of the ease of use and not having to worry to take it. I am switching off of this soon."
"I was on the Ortho Evra patch from age 16-26. They did discontinue it so I switched to Xulane. Prior to Xulane I had stopped taking birth control for 1 month. My face broke out completely. Only my cheeks. As soon as I got on Xulane the acne stopped within 3 weeks. The only side effect I have had are tender boobs at random times. Not sure if they are growing. Haven't gained any weight but I have been small my whole life. I'll review in about 3 months ago as it's only been my second month on Xulane. My insurance covers Xulane so no out of pocket cost."
"I love it. This is my first time using birth control and it does its job. My boyfriend and I had an unplanned pregnancy after I lost it I decided birth control was a good option. I'm 25 and I still get my cycle and I gained a little weight not too much."
"I love the patch!!!! I have used it for 6 years and no problems. I use it 3 weeks on with 1 week off. I never had any side effects like being itchy or red marks. The only issue I've had is when I go to the beach the salt water wears off the stickiness but I always bring an extra one due to knowing that happens. I've never had a problem getting pregnant from using it. I think it's great I've never gotten pregnant while on the patch but once I took it off it took me about two months to get pregnant. I love it and will continue using it."
"Switched to this after Ortho Evra was discontinued; had just about every bad side effect there is. LOVED my Ortho Evra Patch, expected this to be the same, but this  Xulane mess is awful. First off, it won't stay stuck. Tried shaving the skin, swabbed with alcohol, let it dry, stuck and held in place 10 sec, etc. It just never stayed more than 3 days at best. My pharmacist even had to give me some weird tape to try to keep iton longer. So of course with the patch not consistently in contact, there's breakthrough bleeding, irregular LONG periods, terrible mood swings. I thought my body might just need a period of adjustment; I stuck with it 3 months. I gained 14 pounds and looked so bloated and puffy. At age 30, I started having cystic acne for the first time in my life. Oh yeah, and NO sex drive. Yeah my husband just loves that. I will never recommend this to anyone. Ever. Finding something else has been an ongoing nightmare."
"This is my first birth control, and I love it! It's convenient because I don't have to remember to take a pill everyday. My boobs have grown a half size bigger and my acne cleared up. I have no other side effects. (I'm on 25 mg and I am 120 lbs)"
"Previously used oral BC methods, all of which gave me irregular cycles, harsh cramping, etc. MD suggested xulane. Mylan pharma mfgrs multiple transdermal patches. I've been on xulane for over 14 months. I follow a continuous cycle method. Only recently (starting oct '15) at least one of the patches in the pack will fall off or not stick properly. I'm looking into tegaderm patches to cover the xulane for the summer season so I can soak in the water with out worry."
"I give it a 4 - mostly for the convenience.  I went off of the pill because if I missed just one, my period would start and last for a full month.  So the patch is easier for me to remember to change.  The downside for me is that since I've been on it (maybe half a year), several times I've had my period come every 2 weeks.  I'm also using birth control so that I'm only supposed to have my period once every 4 months.  So much for that.  I think soon I will be asking to switch back."
"I've been using the patch for about 3 years but I wanted to know if anybody has had any back pain while using this patch. This has started recently. It's extreme back pain but once the patch is off I'm good."
"I've been on the patch for a month now going on my 2nd, this is also my first time using any birth control & so far I'm happy with it. It definitely has done its job with preventing  pregnancy. I started on a Monday, Tuesday morning, the 2nd day of use, I was very nauseous for just a little while & went away. After that it was mostly just my poor boyfriend dealing with my mood swings, I was pretty emotional as expected with all those hormones & it didn't last long. aside from that, no other side effects since week one/two, its perfect for just remembering it once a week.  It has stuck very well to the arms, I'll also mention that I got pretty bad cramps before my period, not sure if that was a side effect but they were worse than normal"
"I really like it. I'm finishing up my second month next week, but I will be switching back to a pill because the adhesive from the patch makes me itch all week then when I take it off theres a big red rash where it was. I was fatigued for the first two weeks, but haven't had side effects since. I'm sad that the adhesive doesn't work for me, otherwise I'd keep it."
"It does its job (I did not get pregnant while on the patch), but I'm having the same issue as many - IT WON'T STICK. Not only is this a huge waste of money, but it messes up my cycles and has me on and off hormones which is a TERRIBLE way to prevent pregnancy. It is a huge pain to get a back-up patch which they don't often even give me. When my prescription expires, I will not use this again."
"I had taken this medication before so I thought I knew what to expect. I'm 24 and have tried various types of BC. Although the patch was less inconvenient then taking a pill daily, the side effects weren't worth it. I immediately gained 3 pounds (within the first week), I broke out ALL over my face, I've had three large cysts on my face, it made me irritable and caused severe insomnia. My dermatologist and I were both surprised with how much acne it gave me. Absolutely wouldn't recommend this product to anyone, ever!"
"This is the first and last time I ever use this birth control. I chose it because of the comodity of only replacing it once a week but I have to say that as soon as I applied the patch I started feeling anxiety, my arm felt sore where the patch was, I could not fall asleep. It was horrible, I decided to rip it off and guess what it took me less than 10 minutes to fall asleep. Whether it's effective or not I can't say I only used it for a day"
"At first I loved the patch, but quickly I became unhappy. The patch falls off at least once a month. I follow the instructions and put it in a place with no hair, and wash well with mild soap to remove and oil on my skin. This patch has me my face break out terribly along with my back. It has made my anxiety and depression worse! It will fall off because my skin is oily, and my insurance won't pay for extra patches. I started the patch to control when I get my period. I have my wedding coming up and I don't want any surprises with my period or pregnancy. However on my second or third patch change I ALWAYS get my period. I literally take the old one off after I have put my new one on. I'm very unhappy."
"I LOVE the patch. I used to use  BCP but the thought of swallowing a pill everyday yearly made me feel literally nauseous when I took it...to the point I stopped and used condoms only. Needless to say, I have a beautiful 1.5yr old :-) after him I wanted to wait for another. Mind you before having him my periods were "normal." After having him, my period was EXTREMELY heavy lasting 5 to 7 days. I was going through 3 and 4 super pads WITH super tampons. I used with it each day until the last day. It was horrible! That lasted for a year because I breastfed. I got on the patch and I never thought I'd say my period is pleasant but I call it "cute and petite" no cramps. This is my 3rd of 4th month I love it"
"Have been on the patch for 5 months now & it's just awful, I feel nauseous all the time & get headaches and the dizziness that comes along with it. My periods are heavy & have painful cramping, some in between bleeding"
"The first month I was on the patch, I bled for the entire month and was completely miserable! My second patch also fell off 10 minutes after I put it on so I had to use my third patch and then wear it for 8 days because I had to get my next prescription a week early. The next month, my period was lighter but I got it twice, both shorter than my usual 8 day cycle. This third month, I've had unbelievable cramps that no medicine will relieve and incredible nausea. On the bright side, I'm not pregnant, though I'm not sexual active, and my acne has cleared up a lot. Not sure if it's worth it though."
"I love this patch I've been on it for about 6 months now and I haven't had any issues with it. For me I'm constantly on the go changing routines so when I started looking into going on birth control i already knew the pill wasnt gonna work for me. I wouldn't be able to take it how your supposed to for it to be effective. So I  thought I was stuck then I saw something about a patch. The more I read into it I was like I can do this. change it once a week for three weeks outta four easy enough. And as for my period its done wonders I always had short periods (about 3 days) but it was heavy and the cramps and the worst  thing was nothing would help them either. Ever since I started the patch my periods aren't as heavy and I have little to no cramping"
"I'm on my third week and cannot wait to get my period and go back to pills. The first week I was nauseous, but that went away. For all weeks I've been anxious, paranoid, emotional, unable to sleep through the night, and broken out. My breasts have increased a full size, and were incredibly sore the first two weeks. The breakout started on my forehead but now, during week three, has taken over my arms! My chest and back are also broken out. So disappointed that the patch did not clear my skin like Loryna pills, it has only made my skin worse. The estrogen must be too high of a dosage for me."
"The absolute worst. I  was nauseated the entire time on it followed by the worst headaches of my life. My other half thought I was dying due to having no energy. Don't use this product."
"I'm 29 with two daughters, 2yrs and 2mo. I got an IUD after my first daughter and it was horrible. I spotted the entire year! The pain reminded me of labor pains, so I decided to try the patch since remembering to take a pill everyday with two kids in the house seemed impossible. I have been on the patch for about 6 weeks and I will say this, the patch is doing its job, I am not pregnant! But the tiredness I feel is unreal! Literally, I can barely keep my eyes open all day long. I get random feelings of nausea throughout the week, but nothing a few tums can't fix. The headaches seem to always come on the day I put on a new patch, again nothing unbearable. However. The tiredness is driving me insane I really hope it goes away with time."
"I tried it for a year, I was happy with it (except the first 2 weeks..that sucked). Then this month IDK what happened, I couldn't get it the week I needed it so I put the new one on a week late. Long story short  I had really bad cramps, dizzy, headaches, and a 6 week long period..while on the birth control which is supposed to stop it for 3 weeks at a time..."
"One. Just started for the first time yesterday my first day and woke up this morning feeling nauseous and major headache !!!!! I hope it goes away because this ain't cool :(("
"Horrible horrible horrible! Words can't explain how horrible this patch has made my life. Gave me the worst anxiety of my life! Never ever taking it again! I don't recommend it to anyone!"
"So far so good, no side effects other than a bit of nauseousness. I did the quick start method, meaning I didn't start either I the day of my period or on the first Sunday after my period. I have no idea if that makes you get less side effects. Nevertheless, I followed the instructions used backup for 1 week. After that didn't use a condom anymore' so I'm hoping it's effective !!!"
"I have been on this for about 6 months. I love it! It seems that the longer I'm on it the shorter and lighter my periods are getting! I have experienced some anxiety, but nothing too serious. I would recommend this to anyone who is horrible about taking a pill a day!"
"I have been using it for 3 years already and I love it. I think it depends on each person, we are all different. I first started taking pills, but I had to stop since the headaches were horrific! and did not want to experience that pain again. The patch has been great."
"This is the best birth control I've had. It's so easy to remember and you just slap it on and don't have to worry about it for a week. It cleared up my skin significantly, made my periods shorter and lighter, and helped with cramps. I gained about 6 pounds but for me that was helpful and went up about half a cup size but again, perfectly okay with that! The only bad effect I've seen is a little skin irritation where the patch was when I take it off. A little lotion and it goes away though. Only spotted one day. Love this!"
"I've only been on it for less then a week and it Has been horrific!  Like truly a nightmare.   I'm nauseous all the time.   I haven't really eaten anything since I started it.  I've suffered random headaches,  extreme depression and anxiety.   I want to rip it off but my period was short and pleasant and I've only had it on for 4 agonizing horrible days.    I wonder if it gets better?"
"I had to leave work early today because, of how nauseous I feel. I have to work tomorrow too. I'm scared I'm going to go to work and, throw up. I didn't feel like this until the patch. Im currently laying down in nauseous agony. I feel extremely dizzy. I didn't really eat all day, I tried to eat some stuff but I started getting nauseous. I hope this patch will pay off but for right now I'm not happy with it. Really hope I can go to work tomorrow."
"Love the patch I've been on it for 4 months now and it is wonderful"
"I love the patch. I'm in my 4th week without the patch and happy that I have a period. I've never been regular and so far it's looking great. The patch never comes off for me. Remember to always press down on the patch for 10 seconds when applying and you are good to go!"
"""After reading several other reviews, I've realized that every real major issue I've had over the past 7 weeks (how long I was using it) has been because of this thing. My anxiety and depression has been at an all time high, the past three days I haven't been able to keep anything down, and I've definitely experienced the low libido several others have mentioned. After lying on the floor in nauseous agony and reading the reviews i tore it right off. I don't want to say I'm already feeling better but honestly.
This is my first time using bc other than condoms and I chose the patch cuz I knew I would have trouble with the pill. But after my experience I wish I had chosen something different. would not recommend."""
"""Didn't want to be on any birth control. In the past I've been on the shot, the pill, nuvaring, hated it all. 
Gyno said I should be on bc so now I'm on the patch. Been on it less than a month and it's a terrible experience. I'm throwing up all the time, stomach hurts, boobs hurt so bad, so moody I don't want to be around myself(can go from crying because it's the most ridiculous thing to wanting to rip somebody's face off for breathing in seconds), when I think I'm done bleeding it starts right back up, I eat everything because I'm always starving, and I'm breaking out. :("""
"I switched to Xulane from Mirena. I am on my second week. I am so nauseous and my face has broken out badly. I feel tired all day, I'm simply miserable. I'm constantly eating. I actually miss my Mirena. I'll try to stick it out a little longer."
"I'm, 20, been on the patch for almost a year. I switched to the Xulane patch after taking birth control pills got annoying. This works great for me, periods are regular, light, little to no cramping and no pregnancy. I am getting a little annoyed with switching it every week, but other than that it works well. I have had no problems with it sticking and staying stuck all week. I have not been swimming with it on and only takes baths when i am not wearing it."
"I was on this birth control for less than 2 months.  My experience hasn't been good at all using this product.  The application sites (shoulders and upper arms) where I placed the patch had very dark and red spots as if I had 2nd degree burns after I took the patch off.  I also experienced extreme itchiness at those sites while the patch was on and even after it was taken off.  I also experienced spot periods while on the patch.  Cramping for me was intense while on the patch.  I also seemed to have a dry cough while on the product.  I couldn't sleep while on the patch due to really bad headaches.  This product was a nightmare.  I'm going to have to consider other birth control methods."
"Been on it for about 6 months. Experiencing weight gain, low libido, still making me breakout often, chest pain since i've been on it, crazy hair loss. With Ortho Evra, never had any of these problems and was on it for about 3 years total. I am trying to find a different method, Xulane is not for me."
"I've been on the patch for a few months now and I love it. It is way easier to remember to switch than taking the pill everyday, I was horrible with it. The only downside I noticed was that my energy level went down a bit but nothing crazy. I normally get heavy very painful periods and this has helped a lot with it. I have never had an issue with the patch coming off just make sure the skin is clean. It does get a little dirty which I don't like."
"The first month it burned my skin and made whatever part of my body it was on. Itch like really bad. But now it's used to it and it works really well."
"I had been on Ortho Evra in the past and loved it! So when my gynecologist suggested the patch again to stop having periods and just keep patching, I was on board. But my periods have been horrible. The pain is crazy! Never again!"
"I had one dose of the birth control shot and bled for 3 months straight. I was miserable. I switched to the patch and within a couple days, the bleeding stopped! I've had very few side effects from the patch. I haven't had the patch fall off or even move. I love it and I'm so thankful that it made the bleeding stop!"
"After using pills and the the shot this I'd the best one by far, I've never had a regular period and after having twins I would get my period twice a month and spot in between. I went on the patch and it regulated me instantl . The only negative is when I first puton the patch it irritates my skin a little and can pul on my skin a little and taking it off unless you're in the shower is hell."
"BE CAREFUL!!  After being on Ortho Evra for 2  years my insurance switched me to Xulane and I got pregnant within the second month of being on it.  My periods were consistent while I was on Ortho, but when I switched to Xulane they became very spotty/unpredictable, not to mention the bloating and cramping I felt.I was on my 3rd month before I realized I was pregnant.  Even though my insurance covered part of the Ortho, I still had to pay $50, with Xulane it was completely free.  But now we know why, you get what you pay for."
"I've been on Xulene for over a year now after being on Ortho Evra for 12 years. It's working really well on keeping my cycles down to 3 days vs 2 weeks. I'm not sure why everyone has been throwing up or rashes with this medication as I have not had that experience at all. Some complain about the patch coming off. The best way to do it is make sure your skin is completely hair free, dry, and use rubbing alcohol and let dry before applying the patch. Never comes off,"
"I have been on this patch since February. I LOVE it! My periods start the friday night/ early saturday morning of the week I am off my patch ( I change them on Mondays) and I am off by Tuesday night. My periods use to be extremely heavy and very painful but since starting the patch have been great! The weekend before I take it off for the week I am more irritable and bitchy but not horrible. I have started noticing though in the last 2- 3 months that on the weeks I am off the patch by Wednesday I am starting to get really depressed and not feeling like myself, and this is lasting until Monday when I put the patch back on."
"I was using Ortho evera for over 10 years and loved it, then was told I needed to switch to zulane because planned parenthood no longer carries ortho evera. Its been only 2 months and I already have spotting issues on weeks I'm not supposed to bleed. I'm seeing a lot of girls having trouble with the patch falling off. Let me give some good advice that has helped me. When you shower, when its time to condition your hair, put in the conditioner and then put your hair up in a clip so  the water doesn't fall onto the patch. Rinse conditioner out on the opposite side of the patch on your back, as the steam, hot water, and conditioner WILL loosen the adhesive, causing it to fall off."
"I was so upset to hear that my insurance no longer covered ortho era. I absolutely loved that patch! I never had any side effects and it even decreased my appetite to where I lost a decent amount of weight over the year I was on it. Unfortunately, I'm about to start my 3rd patch of this one and have had terrible experience with it so far. I love the ease of only having to change it once a week but the symptoms so far aren't worth it. I have bloating, constipation, headaches, tiredness, tender breasts, terrible mood swings/depression, acne, and I'm constantly craving sweets! I've been eating like a total hog. I plan on sticking with it, hoping that the symptoms will subside. I will update after a few months of taking it if my symptoms get any better."
"I'm on my 4th week of the patch and I have the most intense bleeding I have EVER had in my life. We are talking super plus tampons AND jumbo pads every few hours. Other than that I haven't had any negative effects. I just switched from the Nexplanon arm implant because I had horrible side effects (lost 20lbs in 3 months, couldn't eat because of nausea, bled for 3 months straight stopped for 2 weeks then bled for 2 more months) but I've had a pretty good experience with the patch so far"
"I was on Ortho Eva for about 4months but I had to switch to Xulane. I haven't had sex since I began Xulane so I don't know how effective it is at preventing a pregnancy. I absolutely hate it, I've broken out so much. While I was on OrthoEva my skin was clear and I loved it but now I have more acne & I get white heads which are difficult to get rid of. Am I the only one with this side effect? Bye bye clear skin. By the way I've been on Xulane for 3 1/2 months & my skin has only gotten worst."
"This is my first time taking any form of birth control and I decided on the patch because it has the least invasive side effects out of all forms I've researched. So far I'm enjoying it. I've had a few negative experiences. During my first three days, my appetite was demolished, mainly because any and everything I consumed made me nauseous and I also had a pounding headache. Oh and I bled for nearly a month. I might even be a bit bitchier. But now everything is back on track. During my first cycle on this system my flow was lighter and only lasted 5 days (typically its 10 days). I also lost a bit of weight. My appetite for food reduced and interesting enough my taste palette has been towards healthier options lately. I'm fine with this."
"I have been using Xulane for some time now.  Over a year I think.  Before that I used the Ortho patch.  I loved the smaller size of the generic brand and up until the last 2 months I had not had any issue.  Suddenly it's not been sticking like it use to and it's causing a rash like a chemical burn and the itching is present.   I thought last month's could have been a bad batch but after I moved locations (I use to move from hip to hip) to ensure I hadn't irritated my skin,  I am wondering if they changed a filler or adhesive."
"I'm only on week two and haven't really experienced any major symptoms. The patch is staying on but it seems to shift a little. It's a lot better than remembering a pill everyday. I'll post an update if anything changes."
"I've been on the patch for 2 weeks now, I made sure to follow instructions when placing it on my skin but each time I workout it immediately becomes loose or falls off. The box does not come with a backup or replacement patch so it is not possible for me to afford 2 boxes or more per month to make up for the patches falling off. Would not recommend."
"I absolutely hate this patch. I was on Ortho Evra for about 3 or 4 years before being switched to this. The first few months I had no side effects but now I am up at 2:45 in the morning to tell you how badly this sucks. So I put the patch back on after having it off for a week and then I get so sick that I throw up and i literally have to sleep on the bathroom floor. It is absolutely horrible so first thing in the morning I will be calling my doctor to see when I can get switched off this patch. I use to love the patch because it was so convenient for me but now I can't tolerate it."
"After being taken off the arm implant due to complications with anxiety, and not being able to remember taking the pill, the patch, I've found, is the most suitable method for me. Sometimes the patch does come off but as long as you stick it on and really press on the edges for a minute that is less likely to happen. My first 2 months on the patch I did experience some morning sickness 2-3 times, however my body adjusted and I no longer have had to deal with this. As far as rashes, the patch may make the selected area red and itchy, but it's nothing unmanageable. Overall I would say the patch is the best option for me out of the 3 methods I've tried."
"I don't know why there are so many bad reviews for this birth control. I've been on it a whole week now and it's been amazing. Some say it just comes right off in the shower. I haven't had that problem at all. I've even gotten the patch soapy by accident when washing my body and it didn't budge. I will continue using this method, as I had bad reactions to the depo shot and remembering pills doesn't work well for me. The only side effect I have had some trouble with was feeling very fatigued the first three days of use. Other than that, Xulane is a 10 out 10."
"I started taking Xulane when my insurance stopped covering Ortho Evra. The first month was fine, no side effects, irritation or pregnancy scares or anything but then the second month I started experiencing nausea, cramps, my period was late and then I had the absolute worst depression and even started losing touch with reality. I thought I was going crazy but since I stopped it, I've felt completely fine. Did prevent me from getting pregnant but the mood swings were not worth it anymore, will have to move onto the pill."
"After 20 years of taking the pill, I've decided to try something different. (Why? Was forgetting to take them DAILY & cycles became irregular).It's been 2 months now on the Xulane patch and I'm finally loving it. I can honestly say while on the patch during the 1st month,  I'd experienced excruciating headaches and itching sensation when I'd placed patch on the abdomen area so I begin to change areas each week. This month (starts 3rd patch tomorrow), very little headaches and irritation. I have not had sex since I've started patch so I'm not sure how effective it is. Another plus, patch stays on for 7 days straight through swimming, bathings, showers & my insurance covers the whole expense. "
"My insurance switched me over to Xulane from Ortho Evra and at first it was going really well. I am now 4 months in and it's terrible. I have the worst mood swings, low libido, I've gained 10 pounds and I get a rash around the application area. I have a outline of the patch on my hip that has been there for 3 months.... I would not recommend this to anyone. While it does it's job, keeping me not pregnant, the side effects aren't worth it. Back to the pill I guess..."
"I will start by saying that while on the patch for about 6 months I felt fine... No bad side effects. I follow directions religiously for this stuff because becoming pregnant was not something I had planned. However, after 6 months on the patch and using condoms, I found out I'm pregnant. 16 weeks pregnant to be exact. Because Xulane did make my periods irregular, I had no idea I was pregnant until 14 weeks. Just a heads up to the girls wearing it. It didn't do much for protecting me from pregnancy."
"Awful.  I was on the real Ortho Evra for years.  I lost my insurance and had to switch to the pill.  Finally I got insurance and it covered the patch.  I had one glorious month of Ortho Evra back and then came Xulane.  While I was paying for Ortho Evra out of pocket, I always wished there was a generic.  I was excited to try it... but then I did. I've gained 20lbs over the past year after staying within a 5lb range for 10 years.  I eat healthy and exercise consistently. I've had absurd levels of anxiety, had a decreased sex drive, and constantly feeling dry.  Most importantly, the patches don't stay on.  At least 1 out of the 3 per month will fall off at least once.  What is the point?"
"I switched to the patch after taking seasonique for nearly four years. So far I'm two months in and while I like it, I'm beyond nauseous. I just put my patch back on after not wearing it for a week and I have been vomiting for two days. TWO DAYS. Nothing is staying down but water. Another con is when I first starting the patch I was beyond emotional. I cried pretty much for the first week. Also, this could be because I had switched from an extended cycle pill, but I have cramps straight from the lowest pits of Mordor the week before my period. But it's worth it because I am not pregnant and it's easier to use than the pill!"
"I have been on Xulane for six months now, and I'm sticking with the patch. Before Xulane I was taking the Depo shot and I had my period for 3months, it was horrible. On Xulane, I do get mood swings, and since  I seem to be tires a lot. I've also gained some noticable wait. These would be the only cons, besides that I love the fact I only have to change the patch once a week, and my period always comes the week when the patch is not required. I've always got my period for nine days now my period is only 5 days. I love it !"
"I was on this for 2 years. It was really good. I had very consistent, light periods with no major period symptoms. I liked being on this, but the one major drawback is my sex drive essentially disappeared. I had to get off it or risk my 7 year relationship as I had no desire to be intimate at all."
"""I started Xulane after Implanon and the NuvaRing. I had severe weight gain and depression on implanon and some moodiness and breakthrough bleeding on NuvaRing.
I've been on Xulane for one month so far and I absolutely love it! I alternate from my abdomen to my butt every month and it doesn't even budge or begin to peel off - it sticks!
The only bothersome thing about it is a began to break out a little more - i've always had acne problems but these have been more cystic acne than usual. It seems to be calming down though. Also, I get a lot of fuzz stuck the the adhesive on the patch itself, so I just pick it off if it gets to be noticeable.
Best of all - my period pain has been non-existent and my periods very light."""
"I could tell this patch wasn't for me after a two months of being on it... I had every side effect you could think of.. mood swings, depression, nausea, vomiting, stomach aches, chest pain, shortness of breath, headaches, tingling in my feet and hands, aching in my arms and legs... it got to the point where I was so concerned I had to go to the emergency room to make sure I didn't have any blood clots and that I wasn't in danger of having a stroke or heart attack. Turns out I was okay but they took me off the patch immediately. I'm only 22 but I smoke so I guess that could be why I had such a bad reaction to it. I'm disappointed it didn't work for me because the convenience of not having to take a pill every day was nice. Oh well."
"I like it so far other than having a rash from the patch. I also been itching. I'm on my 3rd patch and I vomited today "
"I had a horrible experience with ParaGard birthcontrol. The insertion was painful but the cramps eventually went away a day later. Every period felt like I was having minor contractions. My first IUD had expulsion issues and  I had it replaced the second one I felt like the cramps were 100x worse. My last month experience with the IUD that made me call it quits was that I started bleeding and had intense cramps a week after my period which was super unusual. I couldn't deal with it any longer so I got it removed. Although very very painful I did not get pregnant."
"So much pain, cramping, bleeding. I have had ParaGard for 8 months  and it is still awful. Affects ability to function and care for my children. Trying to schedule removal ASAP."
"I love that I don't have to deal with hormones on the ParaGard but the side effects aren't amazing, I have much longer and heavier periods. I never used to get cramps, I get them once and awhile. The worst is that I randomly have days where I'll spot pretty heavily. I am considering having it removed for those reasons."
"I just had the Paragard place in Friday April  5, 2019. Also that was the first day of my period. I usually stay on exactly 4 days. I'm off but still spotting with serious cramps. If I don't stop spotting and cramping by this Friday, I will be getting it removed next week. I haven't had cramps since I was a teen. I can't deal with this."
"ParaGard birth control almost cost me my life. I have dealt with the most depression and anxiety that I have ever had in my life and FINALLY came to the conclusion it was my birth control after exhausting all other avenues. I was so so depressed and in such a bad place. It made me really dive into what was causing my depression when my life is not bad and I hadn't dealt with it prior to 4 years ago. I read a review that a mother lost her daughter to suicide a few months after insertion and realized that I have had enough."
"Super painful periods, painful sex, lingering fear of IUD ripping through uterus."
"I've had this in for little over a year now and decided that it's time to take it out. Firstly,  when they measured my cervix and then inserted the IUD it was the worst feeling I've felt in my whole life and I have 4 tattoos. Combining all those tattoos pain level still doesn't equal to that. Also secondly The PERIODS ARE THE ABSOLUTE WORST. The first 4 months when my period came I wasn't able to move when I was cramping for my first 3 days of my periods. The painful periods gradually lessened over time but the cramps are still pretty bad and happens often. Before the copper IUD I never really had cramps and if I did they were very mild. I've had enough of the painful periods and my boyfriend can feel the IUD poke him during sex."
"""I am a strong woman, I take care of myself, my body and my mind. I eat healthy, I exercise. I am healthy. I have a daughter. I'm not in any medication. 
When they put the ParaGard in it wasn't extremely unpleasant, some pressure and a bit more like of a strange sensation when they measured the uterus. No pain. 
Alright after that insertion which lasted less than 5 minutes I was up getting dressed. First couple of days I felt I little discomfort like cramps but not strong enough to take iboprofen.  I had some spotting but minimum for two or three days. Then after that I felt nothing. 
My period started normal and to my surprise it was like before paragard, lasted 5 to 7 days, I'm normally spotting first then heavy for one two days and then spotting until clean. Moderate pain on the heavy days that ibuprofen helps me feel better like usually. No extra pain 
After that all normal and now is my second month in it and my period was normal again. 
So I'm happy with paragard. 
??"""
"I had CONSTANT pain for a full year, and I bled all but about three days every month for the entire while.  My body hated this IUD.  I have a mood disorder and thought, no hormones, awesome! Not when you're thrown out of whack by a constant period anyway.  I didn't get pregnant, and the method itself would be convenient IF it didn't cause you to cramp and bleed all the time (and I'm talking clots the likes of which I have never experienced in my entire life).  I basically stopped having sex at all for a year because who wants to when you're always on your freaking period? After months of various ob/gyns telling me "Ooooh, just stick with it, it'll even out!" I finally did what I should have to begin with and got this stupid thing removed.  The next day, my stabbing pains had stopped, and so had my bleeding.  I'm back on Junel 21 and my PMS wasn't debilitating.  Do yourself a favor and really weigh the pros and cons before you get the Paragard."
"I had the copper IUD for about 2 years and I LOVED it. I had no side effects. However I was getting cystic acne during those two years and I could not pinpoint the problem as my doctors said it could not be the IUD. I ended up getting my IUD out and I waited a few months before beginning another contraception.  During that time my acne completely went away and it turns out it may cause inflammation in the body which can cause acne."
"Well, I chose Paragard after the birth of my second daughter because I wanted something non hormonal. The insertion was quite painful and I cramped for a few days afterward, but I was able to manage. Of course, I was prepared for the heavier bleeding and also the cramps. I could not get through the first day without having to take Ibuprofen, but that was fine. However, about a year and a half ago my cramps grew stronger--they hurt so much even my legs shook. AND THEN, out of no where, I would start to cramp AFTER my period was over. Again, needed meds. Fast forward to 2 weeks ago, NON STOP CRAMPS. During my period and then after, the cramps would not disappear, and I decided I was done. I got it removed and though the removal hurt and I was lightheaded, it's only been a day but the cramps are now gone! It works as birth control, but I could not deal with the pain! This is coming from someone with high pain tolerance, it was unbearable!"
"Oh my! I just had my Paragard replaced today due to having it for 10 years. I want to point out that every single person is different. Please remember this. I had zero negative complications except for heavier periods the first few years. They did return to normal. Please do not let negative reviews stop you from trying this. It's been the best birth control, as I had one child and that shop is closed. Again, try it for yourself. This or any IUD for that matter."
"""The insertion hurt like crazy, but maybe that's all IUD's. My period was much heavier and longer for at least 2 days, on top of my normal 7 day period. I had non-stop spotting in between cycles too. Then, after 1 year and 2 months of occasional intercourse,  with Paragard I got pregnant! 
Would not recommend this as a birth control option, unless you really like heavier, longer, and more painful periods and unplanned pregnancies. Use ANYTHING else, trust me. I'm now using a hormonal IUD and pills and haven't gotten pregnant since."""
"Paragard copper IUD is literally the only birth control that has not given me a single issue in the year I've had it. Insertion was pretty uncomfortable (I had to have it done twice because the first time it was placed incorrectly), but after that I don't even remember it's there. With hormonal BC I would get very bad acne so this was a life saver"
"I've been on the copper coil for a year now. Been on hormonal contraceptives and end up gaining loads of weight and have had serious mental health problems because of hormones so I thought I'd give this a try. Insertion was very painful, however, my periods have got lighter than they were pre-copper coil. Sometimes I get cramps but they only last a few days before my period is due. My period is now like clockwork and I don't even feel my coil is there. I did have acne for a few months and extremely dry skin since I got it inserted but I read online to take magnesium and zinc, it's made a huge difference and my skin is now back to being clear like it was before. Apart from that I must say, It's fantastic and I recommend. Don't listen to all the bad reviews, people write reviews usually if they've had a bad experience, and it all depends on the person whether it's right for them"
"My 19-year-old daughter, with no history of self harming/suicidal behavior, began experiencing progressively worse neuropsychiatric symptoms after her Paragard insertion due to copper accumulating in her neural tissue and her body's inability to eliminate the excess. We never thought the "natural" copper Paragard could be the catalyst for the onset of her debilitating anxiety and despair but six months post insertion she took her life. We ordered hair and tissue analysis tests after her death and received results showing toxic levels of copper. Paragard does not warn patients of this possible adverse event."
"This product is not for everyone. When I first got on Paragard I thought the heavy bleeding and cramps would settle down after the first three months but that was not the case at all. What really happened was that every 28 days I would experience horrible bleeding and cramping that was debilitating. I could not move or so anything it hurt so badly. I decided to stick it out and ended up in the hospital with a bladder infection that went septic. I recommend trying a different IUD before Paragard. The cramps and bleeding were not worth it for me!"
"I had the Copper NON  Hormonal IUD PARAGAURD  inserted at 36 years old I have had no children. After 4.5 months I noticed a tremendous amount of hair loss also my partner who continued to complain that this IUD was poking him and causing him pain. I felt a heaviness in my lower abdomen and the hair loss had become very aggressive in the last 1.5 month out of those 4.5 months. Also the texture of my hair went from soft to coarse and frail which I have never had that happen until after the IUD was inserted. I finally went to have it removed and I found it it had half expelled from my uterus. Also I did ask the doctor and they did confirm that yes indeed that IUD's are linked to hair loss and to change in hair texture. I am so thankful I had  this taken out of me. I would not suggest any IUD in any form. I could have become pregnant because this IUD failed me.."
"I was never one for taking pills and I wanted something that was non-hormonal. My periods have never been long, heavy or that painful. I was in a long term relationship and really wanted to find a birth control that worked for me. When I was researching online I found about ParaGard and was immediately interested. I spoke to my doctor about it and set up an appointment to insert the IUD. I really didn't know what to expect for the insertion, I've never been pregnant. It does hurt tremendously afterward, I had trouble walking and was in pain like I've never experience. Thankfully that only lasted for 1 day and I did spot for a little. My first period was pretty heavy and painful but by the following month everything was back to normal. This has been the best decision by far that I have ever made for myself."
"Paragard side effects were painful intercourse, depression, constipation, bloating, severe anxiety, irritability, and change in the vaginal ecosystem. Worst, most miserable choice of my life. I am and have always been a very happy and upbeat person. I got the IUD removed and was IMMEDIATELY back to myself. Don't waste years of your life with this horrible device!"
"Effective for not getting pregnant! BUT really bad side affects. I'm 24 years old and I was the most happiest person ever! Always so energetic, laughing, etc etc. got this thing put in and started having really bad cramping, and EXTREME anxiety and depression!! I'm now even on antidepressants. Always in bad mood, crying, not wanting to do things. I just got this thing removed!!"
"I got the copper IUD a month ago, I had no pain and barely any spotting. After 2 days I had some days of bleeding. I didn't get my period and had 3 negative pregnancy tests. After 2.5 weeks (with no complaints) I experienced the worst pain and started bleeding extremely. I thought my IUD was expelling. I went to the provider 2 days later and I was told that I was pregnant, the screen showed something in my uterus looked like a baby. The doctor removed my IUD and I had to go to radiology for a better ultrasound of the baby to see what is going on, I went straight away. They sent me to hospital by ambulance, because that thing in my womb, that they thought was a baby might not be a baby after all, and the excessive fluid build up in my pelvis area were very concerning. Turned out I was okay and that 'baby' in my womb was a side effect of the copper IUD. I am not pregnant, it is the lining of my uterus that formed a sack with blood and huge cloths in my uterus. It still has to come out...."
"I was able to have Paragard inserted under G.A.  along with a polypectomy (removal of a polyp). When I awoke from anesthesia I had such mild cramping I wasn't even sure if I could call it that, a .5 on a scale of 1 to 10. It continued like this for 24 hrs. I felt almost normal. Periods have been longer w/spotting for 2 days prior and post. Cramping has also intensified & lasts about 2 days off and on but is in NO way debilitating & can be easily managed/avoided with 1 or 2 advil in the course of a day. Before the IUD I would only get cramps every 3 or 4 months. Never have I ever "felt it inside me". I questioned whether it was really there, to be honest. I have a hard time feeling the strings because they wrapped around my cervix within the first 2 weeks after insertion & my boyfriend has never felt them either. Regarding spotting between periods, I don't think I have that issue though I do notice extremely light spotting right around ovulation time for 2 to 3 days. Then it disappears again."
"I have had paragard for eight years and feel the need to write a review as I am researching reviews on hormonal IUDs to replace my paragard. After 8 years I started having lots of spotting and my dr said the IUD is embedding itself into me. So I have to have it removed and replaced. I am intrigued by the low/no periods with a hormonal IUD but the reviews are scary.  Paraguard has been good to me! Yes my periods are heavier and I have to take about one dose of ibuprofen each month for cramps but that is very manageable. I tried the arm patch before Paragard but had it removed quickly because of the side effects. For me I will stick with Paragard that has very manageable side effects instead of risking the side effects of hormonal IUDs."
"Insertion of paragard hurt like hell. After 6 weeks I developed a horrible rash/hives (allergic reaction) that started on my chest and spread to my whole body. It took two weeks from the start of the rash to realize what was happening -  I was allergic to the paragard - and then I had  paragard removed. I am now one week out and the rash has completely healed. I also experienced dizziness, weight gain, bloating and more!! DO NOT GET PARAGARD !!! I"
"I went with Paragard since it could be used as an emergency contraceptive since my body expelled the hormonal one I had prior. I was aware of all the side effects before I had it inserted, but man I didn't think it would be like this. I am constantly exhausted because I literally am on my period for 2 weeks, spot in between for a week and literally have ONE week without any bleeding in between. Now I have been bleeding for a whole month. It's ridiculous! I am hurtings, I feel like sometimes I'm dittzier than normal, I have a lot of fatigue (probably due to all this bleeding), constipation, basically I feel like I'm also getting copper toxicity. I honestly can't take it anymore and just counting down the days until I can get it removed. I honestly would not recommend this to anyone at all."
"Let me start by saying I'm 64 and no longer need to use birth control.  (lucky me).  I do not have experience with ParaGard.  I do have experience with the copper T's given to women in the 70's.  I loved it for two months, when I was 18, and then the odyssey began.  I developed a PID which spread through my fallopian tubes (damaging them severely), blew out into my abdominal cavity causing  peritonitis which nearly killed me.  I still have occasional pain from it 46 years later, had a lot of trouble conceiving in my 30's.  I have adhesions - some attached the tubes to organs, some surrounded my liver and diaphragm.  I caution all women about putting copper in your bodies, it's not worth the risk of life-long pain and fertility issues.  Spend time looking into the companies who manufacture these products and look at the history of rejection.  They love to deny the ill effects until there are enough deaths and lawsuits that inevitably come their way.  Please be careful."
"Paraguard is the worst form of birth control... left me mentally unhealthy for eleven years.  I was diagnosed bipolar shortly after placement put on meds with no idea that the copper could be causing these symptoms.  I have been suffering for the last eleven years my relationships have been ruined all because of copper toxicity from Paraguard."
"Had the IUD for 3 years. I honestly had a good experience with it, obviously no birth control will be 100% amazing, you have to know that there's gonna be some side effects. I decided to go with the paragard because I didn't want to deal with the hormones but I dealt with extremely heavy and painful periods instead. Other than that it was okay..no other major side effects. Sex was painful though, if he stuck it too far in it would hurt us both really bad. It just made me feel u comfortable. Be sure to CHECK FOR STRINGS THOUGH!!! I never did and my IUD got moved and found out I was pregnant. Very disappointed in that."
"Paragard ruined my life. I have been sick and in pain, had surgeries and even been diagnosed with fibromyalgia. I found an article about copper toxicity and had my IUD removed this was after years of agonizing pain and several other mental health problems that arose out of no where while having Paraguard in.  Now I am almost completely pain free 7 months post removal. This thing has been poisoning me for years - I lost everything - This is the worst and scariest product on the market..I hope to help get it off the market. I will try until the day I die.  The people who make and sell this are sick monsters!!!!"
"""DON'T DO IT!
I had Paragard for a full year, and thought about/researched IUDs for a few months before getting it. Yes, it's nice not having to take a pill everyday or worry about getting pregnant but the negative side effects FAR outweighed any benefits. 
I'm only fully functional half the time since having this IUD. At least two weeks each month I experience emotional mood swings, anxiety, fear, and cramping that makes me double over in pain. Then I get my period, where I am bedridden and depressed for 3-4 days. I feel terrible - cramping, bloating, lots of pain. I usually feel so bad that I don't eat properly, shower, or take care of myself. 
Also, the strings do not soften. My boyfriend gets poked by them which is painful for him, and it has made our sex life very stressful, uneventful, and infrequent - SPECIFICALLY because of this device.  
I would NEVER EVER recommend it to anyone. I cannot wait to have it removed and feel like myself again."""
"I just got paraagard inserted today, so obviously I don't have much experience with it. I have many family and friends who have them and helped with my decision to get it. I took an 800mg ibuprofen before hand. The process took about 10 minutes. Parts of it were uncomfortable, but the only part that hurt was the measuring to your cervix. I got cramps about 10 minutes after, now I'm laying in bed with a heating pad about an hour later, and feel mostly fine. Will update with more once I experience more!"
"I had Paragard inserted after the birth of my second child. While this was “effective” in preventing pregnancy it caused so many issues with my body! I had few symptoms for the first 3 years other than increased yeast infections and occasional spotting. Year 4 everything went downhill! The paragard side effects got worse. I had constant infection (yeast and BV) spotting became more frequent as time went on and ended up bleeding for 2 months straight. I had extreme fatigue, complete loss of sex drive to where it was effecting my relationship, weight gain, heart palpitations, hip/back pain, swelling and water retention, horrible PMS, Joint pain among many others. I had it removed after having it for 7.5 years and 95% of my symptoms have completely vanished. The product is effective as a birth control but the issues it causes with our bodies is not worth it.!!"
"Within hours after painful insertion I began to immediately start to feel weird.  I started to have brain fog at first within the first 24 hours. After three days I begin to have severe insomnia . My heart started racing and pounding through my chest and I thought to myself what is going on am I having a heart attack ?  Then started the severe panic attacks I started to feel like I need it to be institutionalized because I didn't understand what was happening to me. I felt crazy and very manic. I started to think to myself maybe it's the IUD. So I googled and found that many women experience copper toxicity. I contacted my doctor and told her I wanted it removed. She tried to tell me I needed to leave it in longer and that I would adjust to it. I scheduled to have it taken out and when I got there the doctor dismissed my symptoms as just my imagination. I had it removed and within a couple days the majority of my symptoms subsided and I went back to normal pretty quickly."
"""Constant pelvic pain 
Almost constant bleeding 
Headaches 
Fatigue 
General feeling of being unwell"""
"I'm male so obviously I don't have this, but I witnessed what my girl went through and this thing is definitely not safe! I was with her from early 2017 till late 2018 she had days where she could function to what seemed normal but she had been in so much pain for so long she had learned to deal with it but a lot of days she was in bed hurting I worked on the road and was rarely home to help her. She got really sick before she had it removed like I was worried she could die she seemed so sick. I read some of you were talking about a brain cloud I believe it because something just wasn't right we ended up arguing over things I had no idea why we were fighting about - none of it made sense and in the end we didn't make it and I believe this has a lot to do with it ! Anyways she getting better daily inside and out and I'm happy for her to be able to finally look forward to her future. But please nobody take this - it affects everyone.... I didn't cover all her symptoms but it was so bad"
"I had the copper IUD for one year and in that time I lost so much weight, which has never happened to me before. (I went from 115lbs all the way down to 85lbs). I was horribly depressed and felt foggy and tired all the time. I talked to my doctor and she told me weight loss and mood change couldn't be from the IUD but I had it removed anyways.  I started gaining weight back within weeks and my mood has since gone back to normal. I will never ever use this product again."
"I couldn't find anything on side effects like what I was having. My GYN acts like I am crazy. I am allergic to birth control and have weird sensitivities. I had it placed 2/8/19. Within 48 hours my bottom gums were red, inflamed, and started bleeding. I had a metal taste in my mouth for the first week with: headaches, body aches, fatigue/no energy, teeth clenching, brain fog, different discharge and like a metal smell, feet have been extremely cold, itching, increased appetite (maybe due to feeling tired all the time). My body just feels different. I am gluten sensitive and some of these interactions mimic it but I haven't been eating anymore/less gluten then my normal. However, if you look up cooper toxicity, these are a lot of the side effects. I'm not saying it's not great for everyone but it's not good for me. I go back 3/8/19 and I will probably have it removed. I'm old enough and my kids are grown so I think I will just have my tubes tied."
"""I had my paragaurd for almost 4 years. I have been through a lot of trauma in my life and managed well for the most part. From the time I had my IUD placed on I dealt with fatigue and brain fog like I've never experienced. My depression and anxiety were near impossible t o manage. Copper isn't hormonal but it still creates a hormonal response in your body. My body had a negative response that had I been well informed, I would have  found out if it could have been my birth control causing me problems long ago. But because the way the information is presented to women we go on thinking ""my depression couldn't be from my iud"".
The first day my IUD was out I felt as if my brain fog had lifted.
The second day I had more energy
I could go on.
I'm not saying this birth control wasn't effective.
I just believe the side affects of this contraceptive should be reevaluated. There shouldn't be this much an overlap in symptoms in women with the IUD. Ignorance isn't bliss for all of us."""
"""This product has to be forbidden by the law!!!!
Do not believe anything positive saying of it!!!!"""
"I've had Paraguard for 3 years now. I HATE THIS THING. I am hoping to get it out very soon. The first 2 years, I really didn't have any bad cramps. I DID still have very heavy bleeding though. Last year,  the really awful cramps started up again and its been unbearable. Apparently it is notorious for bad cramps and heavy flow. No thank you!"
"The copper coil didn't work for me at all. I am 23 years old and have never been pregnant. I was told this form of IUD would be the best for me but sadly it was not. The day I had it fitted was the worst day of my life, the pain was indescribable it felt like my stomach was trying to push the IUD out, almost like contractions. After 24 hours it died down to being slightly more bearable. It then did settle down but every period I had was super super heavy and painful. I stuck with it for 6 months and I then had it removed. The doctor who removed it said I should have never been fitted with this type of coil and the hormonal coil would have been much better suited for me. I'm now back on the pill where I will stay, I'm a little scarred after my first coil experience."
"I've never commented on things like these but seeing all the terrible comments also made me want to share my experience. I had this inserted after I went in for a plan B to Planned Parenthood as it works as an emergency contraceptive. They offered it for free at the time so I took a day to do research and decided to go for it (you have 120 hours after the event to use it as an emergency contraceptive). I received it when I was 20 and have had it for 5 years. It has worked well. I have had no issues with it. I felt like I had become more moody but the doctor said it is not related to this. The insertion was a uncomfortable but nothing too painful. You just feel heavy cramping for a bit and then with the ibuprofen I was fine. I did bleed for 1 month on and off but my periods have been steady now. Last about 4 days. Normal to no cramping. And still not pregnant!!"
"""Severe allergic reactions-I'm talking anaphylaxis-like, carry epipens, anything and everything could set me off. Hives almost daily. 
Heavy and painful periods. 
Hair wouldn't grow for over a year and is only now due to removal of the paragard. 
Chronic fatigue, extreme anxiety and poor mood."""
"""If you are like me, then you may love this birth control! I have tried everything ... pills, patches, the shot, hormonal IUDs. Every single hormonal bc has resulted in severe mood swings for me! I get severe PMS without birth control and hormones just make it worse. 
The good thing about my body is that I have very light periods and no cramps. I have not had any changes in my PMS symptoms and I have been using it for about 6 months.
Downside: Getting it inserted was excruciating for me. I have not had any children so that probably made it worse. I felt painful contractions for several hours. Had mild discomfort for a couple of days. I do have a heavier period now but the trade off is worth it for me. I have not gotten pregnant and have a regular sex life with my husband. 
This birth control has been a godsend for me. I think it is a great solution for people who don't have physical period symptoms and who suffer more from PMS. The temporary pain was worth it for me."""
"I was on this BC for ten years after my first son.  It was fine, until I change it and it lasted  2 years. I got pregnant with this still in place, the doctor removed it without problem, I had my baby, and I gave another chance.  I tried it again and I got pregnant after a year using it, Unfortunately I had a miscarriage and bad infection. I had to be admitted in the hospital for a few days plus a surgery to removed the IUD."
"""If you willing to experiment with your body and if you wanna try to find the limit of your body-take IUD Para Gard-Non Hormone-The Copper one!!!!
I had it only for a couple of days-the worst time for my health.
Even after removing I have tingling on my left side-it started at the moment when ParaGard was inserted in my body .
Doctors say d that the this tingling is coming from the brain-I have to make MIR and full body scanning.
I was in perfect healthy condition before I put Para Gard !!!!
Vomiting ,bleeding, dizziness, cramps ,losing weight before a short time, sweating at nights and in addition-Moving tingling in my left side for maybe to the rest if my life.
Please, think !"""
"""I'm due for my period but I'm 4 days late. Normally I will have pain in my breasts and my nipples will be sore but I don't have any!  So it came on Friday but super light and spotting.
The pregnancy test was negative, the doctor was able to reposition the coil but said it was only lodged slightly.He put the two strings at the right place.he said I got BV again, he gave me one week of antibiotics instead of the 5 tablets cause maybe before it didn't clear up properly or the coil indirectly raised the PH level alongside having unprotected sex. He doesn't know why I had the light period .he said the next period should tell us if it was just a one off cycle change or if it's light period then come back so we can investigate further cause the coil meant to give heavier periods and not light period. Don't drink any alcohol as a precaution but wait for the next period.
Now I feel bloated, light cramps and just feel super tired 
I think it's time to take this cooper coil out!"""
""Do not recommend. Besides longer periods and constant abdominal pain, ranging from painful before periods and mild after, I've got the worst PMS syndrome ever. The flora of my vagina changed. I have removed it and instantly felt better.
Psychology: plastic and copper touching my uterus drove me crazy!"""
"In 2009 shortly after giving birth to my son I had the paragard put in place, for the 1st year everything was great things slowly started to change. In 2011 I noticed I was having lots of stomach pain after many trips to the doctor they couldn't find anything so I continued on daily bearing the pain the best I could, in 2014 the pain got worse and then I started bleeding. After an emergency room visit it was confirmed that I was 8 weeks pregnant and there was no possible way to remove it without having a miscarriage, the doctor assured me time and time again that the baby was fine, I was told bed rest was the best thing I could do for myself and my unborn baby. After leaving my doctor appointment I went home and got in my recliner and boom I was in labor in about 15 minutes I was squatting in the floor pushing a 13 week old fetus out. Please do not put any kind of object in your body!! it's not healthy and shouldn't be there!"
"I had the Paragard for 5 months before I had it removed. Began with increased duration of periods took my 3 day period to 8 days accompanied by heavy cramps. Intense mood swings that seem to come randomly with fits of irritability and high anxiety. I quit drinking caffeine. My PCP diagnoses me with high blood pressure and experienced hemorrhoids both of which I've never had before. And large dry patches of skin all over my arms."
"""I got the paragard inserted today. I have never been on birth control before and have never had a baby. I was looking for a hormone free and reliable birth control and Paragard sounded great.
As for my experience, I was expecting it to be really painful, but other than some discomfort, I didn't experience any pain. I had mild cramping afterwards and have been fine so far. I'm sitting a bit, but no real bleeding. 
I'm hoping it's going to work fine and will stay in place to do its job."""
"Worst pain of my life. I experience contraction-like cramps every period. At times I have to lay on the floor and deep breathe.  Tonight I was in tears feeling like I was going to vomit from the pain. I had to pace around the room and do squats like a woman in labor. I don't know if it was the naproxen sodium pain meds or hot bath that finally helped the cramps to subside, but had they not stopped I thought I would have to go to the ER and have the IUD removed. It might be effective to protect me from pregnancy but this monthly pain is NOT worth it."
"""Immediately after the placement of Para  Gard I felt tingling on my left side
I had very strong all the side effects described for ParaGard  bleeding stop bleeding dizzy nausea cramps  physical weakness  exhausted  not able to function I felt burning and cold inside 
The IUD felt like a weight inside of me 
I felt like I had been poisoned 
but instead of it I now have non-stop tingling 
At nights I am sweating 
It seems that the ParaGard unlock or provoke my menopause to begin 
In less than a week from 105 lbs I got 97 lbs  
My  Para Gard was insert on January 23rd It was extracted on January 28th 
I had burning in my urethra as well.
The  test showed  that I had an infection in my urethra I started antibiotic 
My monthly period did not occur this month
I have  non stop tingling 
You could confirm all my words on my medical records"""
"You are putting your future fertility, and possibly your life, at risk with this version of a Copper T.  Ask any older woman about the horror stories from when this device was first introduced.  Just think about the shape of your uterus and what the plastic arms of the "T" could do to it!  To be clear, I mean it can poke a hole into the uterus when it is implanted or in place for any length of time.  I am shocked that the FDA allows this dangerous device to stay on the market.  Further, I am completely disgusted by the current TV commercials with young women dancing in floral dresses.  What condescending, deceitful garbage."
"I absolutely love my copper coil, before I tried implant  which disagreed with me then I was on the pill for about 2 years. Sex was painful, I was getting brown spotting all the time. So decided time to try a non hormonal method. Having the coil fitted wasn't painful at all more like a scratch from inside!I took painkillers 30mins before my appointment. A week with the coil I was told by my doctor to carry on till the end off my pill packet .Then I had my first period, It was heavier & more painful than normal. The rest off the month I'm free! Sex is amazing, isn't painful anymore. If anything my sex drive has returned. I don't have to remember to set an alarm to take my pill? Or worry oh god am I pregnant. I know it's only a month. But I haven't had any problems no spotting, no bellyaches I don't even know it's there. I have my first check up in 2 weeks to check every thing is in place which I'm so excited about! so for me HIGHLY recommend the copper coil.Hope this helps you girls x"
"After discussing my options with my dr,  I had ParaGard inserted about 2 months after my third child was born. I had some discomfort and cramping but nothing more than a regular menstrual cycle. Fast forward to my first menstrual cycles and I bled for 2 weeks straight. My second cycles after my bleeding lasted for 3 weeks and every cycles from then on. I called my dr and asked what was going on why was this lasting so long and they said during the first couple of months bleeding can increase some but it will go away. After a year of 3 weeks of bleeding and only 1 week not bleeding routine. I called my dr again and the nurse practicioner told me I was fine it was normal. Two months later I passed out at my sons baseball game and had to have a blood transfusion because I had lost so much blood from my menstrual cycle. I had to have the IUD surgically removed because it was imbedded in my uterine wall, probably from the beginning and my uterus was constantly trying to flush it out."
"This product is TERRIBLE and I do not recommend this! You will hurt for a bit when it gets inserted. Then that will pass and you will think you are all normal again. But this is when it creeps up on you, the increased blood loss from your periods made me dizzy and delusional. My anxiety skyrocketed and I am constantly experiencing vertigo. I am constantly tired and feel out of it, my behaviour has changed immensely and it has only been 7 months of use. This is actually sick that we have to have something lodged inside us that was probably invented by some man! Just  use condoms and save yourself!"
"""I had a Paraguard IUD inserted shortly after my second child was born. I always felt terrible when I was on the pill and I was looking forward to trying a non-hormonal form of birth control. Insertion was painless and quick and I only had mild cramping afterwards. 
Every period I had while using Paraguard was a nightmare. Each lasted 7-10 days and 3-4 of those days the bleeding was so heavy I was going through a pad every 1-2 hours. I was never one to have bad cramps, but cramping was severe and painful on Paraguard. My doctor assured me this was normal and would not last, but it could take up to year for normal periods to return. 
Eleven months after the IUD was inserted, I became pregnant. It was a tubal pregnancy that had to be terminated with two shots of methotrexate.  After the removal of Paraguard my periods returned to normal. 
tl;dr: Paraguard caused heavy, painful periods and a pregnancy! I do not recommend!"""
"After 9 1/2 years of having the IUD with no problem..I found out I was pregnant..  I'm currently 6 weeks and very upset because the point of me getting this was to make sure I didn't get pregnant.."
"I wanted to share my experience, after reading negative reviews for the Paraguard. As others have said, I chose the Paraguard because it is a hormone free birth control and after taking the pill for many years with negative side effects, it finally seemed like a better alternative. I was very nervous going into my appointment after reading mixed reviews and hearing how painful it is for some. I almost told the doctor during the beginning of the procedure to stop because I was so scared. Then with a slight sting the entire procedure was over and it barely hurt. In all it was over within 5 minutes and placing the actual Paraguard is only 2 of those 5 minutes. I was so relieved and kicked myself for getting so worked up. I've had it for 2 weeks now. The day after having it placed I did have some uncomfortable cramps, but they were manageable. I spotted for 1 week and now all of the side effects seem to be done."
"I have had my IUD almost 9 months. Having it put in wasn't that bad. The cramping was horrible, it still is. But the thing that is messing me up is the mental part. I'm feel very anxious. My libido has gone from super high to super low. Sex isn't it so much of a need anymore. I still think that the copper IUD as an effect on our natural hormones. I've done a lot of research on copper toxicity. A lot of my side effects are matching up with it. I think by the end of the month i will have it taken out."
"I had the paragard for 10 years in the last year I was extremely uncomfortable had it checked twice and both times my horrible doctor suggested I keep it until the 10 years is up.  Now  I actually find out it had  embedded into my uterus and when I went to have it removed it would not come out. I had to have an entire surgery. DO NOT USE THIS BIRTH CONTROL THEY ARE TRYING TO KILL US ALL."
"""This is long but if you are a virgin or haven't had a baby - read it! 
I love the fact that Paragard has no hormones. Because of that, I didnt get the side effects of other birth controls like bloating, acne, mood swings, etc. I did have cramping for the first week or two after insertion. The spotting didn't stop until after my first period after insertion.  However, I got it inserted as a virgin. I got married 6 weeks later and two weeks after that, all of a sudden sex hurt really bad, and after some inspection I felt the IUD falling out. Got it removed and replaced. The doctor didn't cut the string short enough so they would painfully poke my husband during intercourse. Then, again two weeks later, I was on my period and while removing a tampon I ACCIDENTALLY PULLED IT RIGHT OUT OF MYSELF. I was told that because I haven't been pregnant, my uterus isn't used to having stuff in it so it just spat the IUD out. If it would have stayed in I would have kept it for a while!"""
"POSITIVE REVIEW! So I have had ParaGard for just about 7 months now. First time having an IUD. The insertion process I will say was very uncomfortable. I had mild cramping afterwards, and my cycle did get a lot heavier just during that particular time. I will say that having it, I don't get any of the symptoms that I have read in a lot of these reviews outside of my cycle went from being 4 days to now being 5 days. Some cycles are a little heavier than others, but not drastic of a change such as the insertion while I was on. I have had no negative side effects to this IUD since having it. Even during intercourse, it's not painful and my partner only complained once of him feeling it, but I think that was more of his fault (adult humor)...outside of that, he doesn't feel it. I can honestly say that I am glad that I have it. Prior to this I was really considering a permanent sterilization (I only have one child), but I feel this has been great for me so far."
"""I'm so glad that it is a godsend for so many women, but I wish there were publicized research on the potential side effects. I have a history of depression, but had been off antidepressants for about a year without issue before getting my IUD in. Only 2 months after I got paragard I was feeling anxious and suicidal. I went back on the medication I had been on by my symptoms never resolved as completely as they had pre-IUD. I finally started reading stories from women whose mental health took a turn after insertion of paragard, and will get it removed next week.
What drives me crazy is that doctors refuse to acknowledge the POSSIBILITY that there is a relationship between the copper IUD and mental health.  I know there are issues with how such research could be conducted, and I'm not  surprised that something that boils down to self-reporting by women (dramatic! hysterical! unreliable!) isn't of concern to Western medicine."""
"I have had this twice before.  I used it before I had my daughter then 6 weeks after I had her I got another one. Pros: you legit don't have to worry about getting pregnant. Cons: my period is long & heavy about 8 days it sucks which is why I want to change it. It comes every 3 weeks so that blows also. I get cramps very painful and back pain but nothing 2 advil can't fix. No anxiety, no depression, no acne or weight gain .Now as for the this I'm debating on taking it out because this period every three weeks SUCKS & for 8 days on top of it is tough. Good luck ladies "
"I absolutely love mine. Getting it put in and then the first period after was honestly very painful, but after that, its been wonderful. I think my period is a teeny bit heavier, but that is about it. I have not had any weight gain or increased acne breakouts due to this BC, and no issues with mood swings. Occasionally I can feel the implant if I stretch a certain way or on my heaviest period day, but I honestly do really love my paraguard."
"I had an terrible experience with this IUD. It caused me major back pain, and about twenty pounds of weight gain. It ended up dislodging itself at about a year and six months. The copper was oxidizing."
"After having the paragard in for 9 1/2 years and  for some reason it decided to fail me in December 2018.  I just found out that I am currently 6 weeks pregnant. I started have these weird feeling that I felt when I was pregnant 10 years ago with my daughter.  I immediately went to the store to buy a test...and the test confirmed I was pregnant.  My emotion instantly went into fear knowing the IUD is still inserted.  The next day I saw my OB and she removed it without any problems. I told my boyfriend...so we are now having a baby."
"I have had parguard for 2 weeks and I'm getting removed .  I don't like it, how it makes me feel  always bloated, breaks out like crazy face back legs, now I'm feeling to only eat, migraine headaches, always feeling that I'm on my period, all of a sudden would feel sad, cramps, lower back pain and all of a sudden would feel sick. I don't want to discourage anyone but that's my experience can't wait to get it removed."
"My wife used the IUD copper by ParaGuard. It failed and she is now pregnant! I am 64 years old and not looking forward to becoming a new father. I am fully unsatisfied with the performance of this product."
"I was really nervous to get the paragard IUD inserted after reading a bunch of scary reviews online. But I decided to go through with it anyway because I wanted a birth control with no hormones. The insertion was not nearly as bad as I thought it would be, just minimal cramping. I bleed lightly for about a week after and now I feel totally back to normal."
"I had the ParaGard for 14 months now and I am considering having it removed. I have always being a 4 day bleeder without cramps or heavy bleeding. Now I bleed for 6 to 8 days and I bleed so heavy and I cramp. I literally have to stay at home during my period because I bleed so heavy. I am constantly taking showers through out the day because I continue to mess up my clothes. I am very depressed and had a lot of weight gain. I'm going to have the IUD remove after reading about "copper toxicity". Please do your research before getting the paragard"
"I just watched your stupid commercial in the grocery store. Omg that's enough for anyone to not use your product. You need new advertising"
"I have had the Paragard in for nearly 9 years now (since I was 15) and it's life span is almost up. When I first got it in it definitely caused some seriously heavy periods and bad cramping, I'd say this went on for the first 5 years to some extent but it mostly tapered off after the first 2 or 3 years. I was also in my teens at the time and I had heavy periods before insertion as well. I suspect puberty was largely the cause of my bleeding being so heavy for so long. Thankfully I'm now puberty free 4 years and counting. If you can handle the increased bleeding I highly recommend the Paragard. I've had no other side effects up until recently and my sex drive is great! Unfortunately in the past year I've had some strange spotting between periods (though my periods themselves are 7 days every 28 days like clockwork) and after some tests my gyno thinks I may have low grade inflammation caused by the IUD so I'll be getting my trusty old gal out and replacing her with a Kyleena soon."
""This IUD has a lot of mixed feelings towards it, but I wanted to give some happy news.
I have never been able to take hormonal bc...makes me depressed, anxious, we're talking heart-racing/borderline paranoia. I spent about five years with condoms and a diaphragm (which honestly, underrated.  If you're okay with getting in there, go for it.)
Paragard had always intrigued me, but all the hype was scary: the size, I've never had a child, the bleeding (already a heavy flow), toxicity!
Eventually I had enough courage to do the damn thing. Insertion was scary, but that was built on hype. It was not so much painful, as it was a shock. Took about 4 minutes. I went shopping after. 
One thing I will say-- my cramps for the first five months were BRUTAL. But that's what Advil and a heating pad is for. I also knew it's temporary. Since then, it's sunshine and lollipops... I love it. And the fact that I don't have to worry about babies until 2027...wow."""
"""Positive review! I had Paragard inserted four days ago. I read way too many reviews online before my insertion and was nervous. I tried not to let those sway me from trying this contraceptive. All bodies react differently. I would say the insertion was a breeze. Sure it was uncomfortable at moments but pain scale maybe a 4 of 10. I took ibuprofen before and after. I did feel slightly crampy the next two days but heating pad and ibuprofen helped. I still was able to go to work and day two I was back in the gym for a mostly light workout. I'm still slightly tender and achy in the morning but overall very manageable. I have not had too much spotting yet, so we'll see how my first period goes next month as far as heavier and worse cramps. 
Hope this helps!"""
"After having the ParaGard for 9 months I had it removed because of extremely heavy long periods and continuous bacterial vaginosis. Followed by yeast infections and now a urinary tract infection three weeks after having it removed. Hoping things get better."
"10 it's effective that's not the issue. I can't begin to explain the cramping I get a week before my period and then in the beginning of my cycle. I never experienced bad cramps before until having this IUD. It feels like someone is taking my ovaries and twisting them. It makes me loose my breath and I find myself huddling over the floor. Then when I get my period, it's the heaviest I have ever had in my 26 years. Having this for a couple months was the worst thing I could have ever done to my body. Putting the IUD in was the most painful thing and it made me bleed for days. Needless to say, I wouldn't recommend this for anyone unless they want to feel unbearable cramps and bleeding for weeks."
"After my second child I wanted a birth control I did not have to worry about. I decided to go with a "no hormone birth control",  as I felt I was moody on the pills. I was on the ParaGard for approx 2 years. The first year my period lasted longer than usual. The doctor informed me through out the first year my body has to adjust. My periods lasted 2 weeks max., with really bad cramping. Going into the 2nd year my periods never went away. I literally had my period for months. It really took a toll on my life. I became upset, moody, and angry. My doctor checked the IUD and said it looks fine, she does not understand why my period is lasting so long. I decided to remove the IUD as the doctor tried to convince me to get a new one put in. I refused. My period went back to normal right away and I  became my happy self again. My husband and I use condoms. We both agreed birth control has its pros but many cons that can harm the women's body."
"Well, good for 10 years, effective for 10 years, hormone-free - sounds fantastic right? HA! That's what I thought. I had this godforsaken IUD put in after my second daughter (around Feb. 2018). From the get-go I've had very painful cramps, ovarian pains, mood swings, higher anxiety, more depression, SEVERE UNCONTROLLABLE RAGE AND ANGER OUTBURSTS, very, very heavy bleeding with clots, spotting between periods as if pregnant, very long periods, back pain, bruising and anemia, increased thirst, migraines, extremely itchy legs with some small blisters (just like it did when I was pregnant), vaginal odor like copper. I'm planning to have this THING removed soon. Which sucks because I can't take hormones due to severe migraines. Condoms it is again. P.S. I also know someone who got pregnant and gave birth while on Paragard."
"Was looking for new birth control, as having been on the pill for over a decade was taking its toll- my weight and blood pressure were up, so I needed something new. Went off of the pill for about 6 months to determine what to do and ultimately went with the paragard. Never been pregnant, got the paragard inserted a bit before my 30th birthday. Insertion was AWFUL, hence deducting one star. The 24 hours following insertion were also terrible- constant pain and I was really worried it wouldn't work out. But after another day the pain subsided. Not gonna lie- periods are a lot heavier and longer, so I deducted another star, but my pre-paragard periods were very short (2-3 days) and light, so nowI I suppose it's like having a regular period. Cramps are the same- no better, no worse. Libido is UP UP UP! Husband has no issue and has never felt the strings or anything."
"I had many symptoms that are not mentioned.  I first started having heavier bleeding and horrible cramping during periods. The other problems I had gradually became unbearable and some I didn't link to the IUD instantly.  I started having hip pain that I couldn't link to an injury and odd ankle pain when beginning to run. I began having severe tailbone pain over a month into having it.  The stomach cramping started my last period after the period was done. I also had Bacterial Vaginosis. I became very emotional.   The worst was the Tailbone pain. The Doctor said it probably wasn't  my IUD. I had it removed. Within 1 hour the Tailbone pain was gone. I have an appointment tomorrow with the OBGYN to discuss all of this. I am not sure at this point how the Paraguard caused this but I am researching it. Doctors constantly said the IUD is most likely not causing all my symptoms but they all went away promptly when it was removed."
"I have had one child before ParaGard insertion, I'm a 25 y/o very athletic female. I've had it inserted since 2015. My boyfriend and I have a very very regular sex and it has worked so far. I usually forget it is there.. my boobs and butt did get bigger but my waist stayed tiny. I can only say that my periods have gotten heavier, and my libido is way higher. You couldn't pay me to have this thing removed."
"""It was great for about 2 years..... until I got pregnant.
Enough said"""
"My periods have been 400 times worse over the past 6 months (after the insertion) than I've ever had in my life. The amount of blood coming out of me is horrible and my period now lasts twice as long. It used to take 4 months to use up a box of tampons, I'm now at one box every 2 months. The cramps are horrendous. It's almost debilitating. I would say 50% of the time it hurts for me to have sex after the insertion of the IUD. I've actually cried from the pain of having sex. Its caused me to be scared of sex. And last but not least I'm having constant aching pain radiating from my lower right abdomen and into my lower back. Subconsciously I do not suck my gut in because it would cause more pain. And now that I've had such a bad experience having it inserted I'm scared out of my mind to have it removed. I hate it, it has caused more harm in my life than good."
"Absolutely the worst experience of my life. Heavy brutal periods. Constant pain in my ovaries. I'm laying in my bed every single night with a heating pad. Can't come out fast enough."
"I used to have mirena but didn't like it cause of the hormones, so I tried paragard. Insertion hurt so bad I laid a F bomb on the dr. After a year my periods only got heavier and heavier. I can't even use tampons anymore. My cramps got worse and worse over time and nothing helped, even a muscle relaxer did nothing. Before I got this IUD I've never experienced things like this before. My cramps sometimes shot down into my legs and my back hurts so much I can barely move. I'm really considering getting it removed."
"Mine was great"
"I got the paraguard in Aug 2018.  Insertion was no big deal.  The first 3 months menses were obnoxiously long! One week spotting 5 days extremely heavy bleeding and several more days light bleeding.  Cramps were not much more pronounced than usual.  As far as effective birth control it works because it completely destroys your sex life!!  Within a week of having it implanted, I had the most horrendous metallic smelling discharge.  It was so foul I could smell it through my clothing.  I went to the DR and confirmed, no infection, no BV, or yeast.  Just nasty odor.  I was so tired of it I got it removed.  It took about two days for the odor to dissipate.  It is Jan 2019 and I feel like a new woman.  I will not go back to paraguard ever."
"I have been using the copper IUD for a little under two months but so far I can do nothing but rave! The insertion was a lot less painful than I imagined. There was absolutely a pinch and discomfort, but nothing worth screaming or “passing out” over. Since then, I have completely forgot it was there. My period is heavier and CRAMPY! but it only lasted four days & that's less than I usually have it for. No side effects with my hormones (why I stopped pills). I love it!"
"I got my IUD in March of this year. I was NOT prepared for the insertion, which felt like the most intense and painful cramp of my life. I made the mistake of working that day, and the pain was unbearable with no aid from medication or a heating pad. A week before every period, I would have spotting and serious cramps. By September, nothing would help for my pain, and cramps would happen randomly. It got to the point where I would have to leave functions or call-out from work because they were so extreme. Got it out the end of September, and never felt more relief. The pain was not worth it."
"Works well but has been causing chronic BV Since I got it inserted 2 years ago. I have been taking probiotic pills now which have been a miracle for avoiding doctors visits every month."
"I had the ParaGard inserted in October 2018. I was told multiple times that it takes 3 months for your body to adjust to the IUD. It's been 2 months and I'm still experiencing severe pain. My cramps have amplified tenfold, it seems as if spotting NEVER stops, and I'm actually bed ridden when I full on bleed. The insertion was very painful, and now when my period comes around (I used to be VERY regular), not only do I cramp, but my lower back hurts so much that my entire mid-section feels as if it's trying to severe itself in half. This is the worst pain I've experienced... and I've had an abortion. I'm giving it one more month, but if my symptoms don't change, I am eager to get it removed."
"""Pros:
-The insertion of the ParaGard/ Copper IUD was not very painful luckily for me, just felt a pinch like sensation for a couple seconds. 
-It was effective at preventing pregnancy.
-Doesn't have added hormones.
-Cramps continued to be manageable and didn't worsen that much for me.
Cons:
-My periods got much heavier, requiring me to wear 2 super tampons at a time during my heaviest days. 
-Brown discharge at the beginning and end of my periods, and more clotting.
-At my annual exam, my doctor told me my IUD was coming out and was confirmed by an ultrasound, and so I had to get it removed because it wasn't even in my uterus, making it an ineffective form of BC. I had gotten the IUD in April 2018 and it only stayed in until December 2018, so it didn't even stay inside for a full year, when it is supposed to last for 10 years... This is the main reason I am giving this BC only 5 stars out of 10."""
"Had this IUD placed after 4 years of being on using nothing  but condoms for contraception. Almost ended up in a mental hospital from copper toxicity. Knew something was very wrong but had no idea why because the side effects where not listed. Dark racing irrational thoughts that scared me, heart palpitations, unreasonable amounts of paranoia, extreme anxiety, severe personality shifts. Have read other stories than mine of women going manic. Finally figured out what was going on. The rep on the phone for Paragard told me “sorry that happened to you but the box says “this is not a complete list of side effects so sorry”. There is no complete list. Know the signs of copper toxicity so you can take it out early if you try this method. It will depend on your adrenal health and biochemical makeup but there is no way to know beforehand. I don't want to scare anyone but I do want to share. I'm fine 1 year post removal but I lost everything and will never be the same"
"I first started paragard in 2012. First couple years I didn't notice anything other than the usual side affects. My periods got really heavy and I became seriously anemic.  Around 2015 I  began having extreme mood shifts right before my period. It was getting worse as time went on so  I went on an antidepressant but, it didn't do much with the PMS depression crashes. By 2017 my period was heavier than it had been in the past. I was also bleeding much more frequently. The extreme moods were so much worse. I was near suicidal whenever I would have PMS. Just to be totally accurate with this review, I have a history with depression and anxiety but had never experienced anything like this. I began reading reviews and other experiences with the paragaurd, and heard similar stories. About six months ago, I got the Paragaurd removed. My period went back to normal immediately after removal. The mood episodes are almost non existent."
"""At first I was really skeptical, because there are a lot of bad reviews, but I decided to still try it out anyway. I have never wrote a review on anything in my life, but I love this IUD so much I thought my review might help some people! 
Getting it inserted did cause some pain, it was about two big cramps and then it was in! The next two days I cramped very lightly, just like I would for a period and Advil took the cramping away! 
My first period with the IUD was a bit harsh, medicine and a heating pad helped though and I still went about my normal daily activities. My second period was about the same. 
All of the periods following that were completely back to normal, everything was exactly how it was before I got the IUD. I have had absolutely no physical changes, and I completely forget I have it. I love that it doesn't contain the hormones to change my body and that I never even notice it is there."""
"""I had the Paragard placed in May of 2017. I chose Paragard since it's hormone free and some of the studies I read said that copper IUD users had less incidence of cervical cancer. Apparently the inflammation it causes helps clear the HPV virus. The day of insertion was extremely painful. I rate it as high as when I broke my wrist. The pain became tolerable after a day, but I had absolutely no energy for several days to weeks. 
The periods and cramping were horrific even after taking ibuprofen. My boyfriend became concerned with the amount of NSAIDs I would take to try and feel normal. I decided to have it removed after 18 months. The nurse said at my removal today that they take more out then they put in. I feel that the 1/5 women statistic that have pain, cramps is an incorrect valuation."""
"Hormonal birth control really messes with my mental health and a copper IUD was my best option for a longer term birth control without the side effects of hormones. I have had it inserted for a month now and so far things are great. I had bleeding for a week after insertion and some cramping but nothing too bad. I naturally have very heavy periods with horrible cramps so my doctor was concerned that the copper IUD would cause even heavier bleeding and worsening cramps but it was a risk I was willing to take. I'm very please to say that I am on day 2 of my first period with the IUD and I have ZERO cramps and my bleeding is lighter. I don't know how uncommon this is but I'm pleasantly surprised. Sex with the IUD is better for me! I have zero worries about becoming pregnant. I don't have to worry about missing a pill or anything which is wonderful and makes sex so much better for both me and my husband. It cost me $70 which works out to less than $0.60 a month."
"I had the Paragard IUD inserted 8 weeks after having my twins. It sounded great to have a long lasting birth control with no hormones. Well, about 3 days after having it inserted I started having severe pain. After only a week and a half, an x ray showed it perforated my uterus and was in my abdomen. Now I am recovering from the surgery to get it removed, while trying to take care of my 2 month old twins. I will be going back to the pill."
"""DO NOT RECOMMEND. I just removed Paragard after 2 years of having it. In the beginning everything seemed to be fine, apart from heavy bleeding which I was prepared for. Most of the days of my period I had to have a tampon and a pad in order to stop the bleeding. In the past year I had reoccurring yeast infections almost every month. I tried changing my diet, taking probiotics, without any change. However the real problem was of the mental kind, over the years my mood swings and depression got much worse, with episodes of intense anger, anxiety and sadness days before my period. It all culminated with last month when I felt deeply depressed and suicidal for no apparent reason– I finally decided to have the IUD removed. The removal was terrifying, because the obgyn couldn't find the device, so she had to use the ultrasound and apply 3 anesthetic injections my cervix during the removal. 
I'm so happy that I did it, I feel so much better and calmer now."""
"I just got the paragard inserted on 12/4/18 while still on depo provera. My next shot would have been due on 1/5/19 but I am not getting it due to having the IUD inserted. I was also on a period while I got it inserted. So far everything is good, cramping after the insertion was really bad took 1,000 mg of ibuprofen but the next day it wasn't bad only took 800 mg of ibuprofen in the morning that day and the following day. Now on the third day there's barely anything besides slight bleeding. I chose this because this specific IUD because I was tired of having a low sex drive, depressed mood, weight gain, and hair falling out on the depo provera. I got three shots and gained 10 pounds!!! I plan to keep the paragard until 12/2028 which is when I am supposed to get it removed."
"The side effects are not worth it. I have had this for a little over a year and I regret ever getting it. Have an appointment to get it removed and i cannot wait."
"I got the IUD in May 2015 and just had it taken out (Nov 2018) due to a complication. Insertion wasn't bad at all, just a little pinch and that was it. I went to lunch after! For the first 3 years it was great. Heavier periods and more cramping, but no moody changes/depression/weight gain - so I would say the pros far outweigh the cons. I never had bad periods anyways, so the heavier version of what I had wasn't bad. The issue for me came when I lost 40 lbs in 2 months, due to other personal issues. Losing that much weight that quickly caused the paragard to shift and sit too low, which caused awful periods and terrible cramping - my body was trying to expel it since it was no longer correctly placed. I ended up having to get it out and got skyla in today (which was 6/10 pain scale insertion for me - where I would say Paragard was 3/10), just thought I would try something new and see how it goes! Paragard was great though - loved that it was hormone free and lasted 10 years. Hope this helps!"
"I had severe pain, heavy bleeding and clotting for the entire time.  After removing the device, I had a hysterectomy within six months."
"I became pregnant with the Paragard.  Had it removed and miscarried.  Use backup contraception during fertile days.  Better yet, avoid at all costs."
"8 years later I'm pregnant with the Paragard still in. For the first three months I thought I was dying. The pain got so bad that I was spending more time in the ER than at home! I'm happy my daughter is ok but I feel so robbed. I didn't even have an option for an abortion. I have really mixed feelings. No my paragard was not damaged. It was placed correctly. I had 6 neg pregnancy tests but a positive ultrasound. No I would not recommend this. Hospital visits start adding up after a while. I'm 25 weeks pregnant as I type. Talk about bad luck. Smh"
"I decided to get Paragard in September 2018 because hormonal birth control causes me to have severe anxiety. The insertion was a lot easier than I thought. It felt like a very intense period cramp for 5 full seconds. My doctor, thankfully, was very fast and kind. My cramping that night got worse, and I was bed ridden for the next two days. It slowly got better, and after a week I forgot I even had it, even during sex. My periods have intensified, even though it is non-hormonal. My breasts get more sore, my periods last a week, and the cramping starts a week before my period until about day 3. The first period was terrible, but Tylenol with IBP and a heating pad will help with the pain. The second period was less debilitating, but still tear-jerking. I am now on month 3 of having Paragard, and my cramps are already so much more tolerable. So far, everything has been worth not worrying about pregnancy. My partner can sometimes feel my strings but it's never painful for him."
"I can only comment on insertion at this point. I am 37 years old and have had 2 csections. I didn't feel her inserting it at all. I will come back and review in a few months."
"Had Paragard for three days. Insertion was fine-cramped for about 10 seconds then no issues. Insertion was around lunch time. By dinner time, mild cramps; by day two, severe cramps. I'm taking the maximum of  Aleve and  Advil by 2pm kind of cramps- and it didn't even touch the pain. Day 3 I considered going to the ER to have it removed but couldn't even sit to drive there. It literally removed itself from my body.  I am a very tiny person so I don't know if that was a factor. It was horrible. I was out of work for days."
"Didn't work for me. I thought I would be with the lucky people that have no complaints. Since the percentage of it going wrong is 3% or less.  I ended up getting BV on monthly basis right after my period which now lasts 7-8 days. First period was excruciating, every month improved slightly. Unfortunately my body rejected this device. Last month the copper was protruding out my cervix I plopped it back in. This month it was literally 70% out. Not worth it. All the doctor visits and antibiotics for BV costs way more than the convenience it initially promised."
"I had my copper iud (Paragard) in from June 5th 2012 to April 18th 2018. After suffering continuous urinary tract infections from August's 2012 I decided to get it removed. Not changing any other aspect of my life besides the removal, I can say I haven't had not one UTI since April 2018. I suffered from many health problems that have diminished since the removal of the IUD. The IUD did keep me from getting pregnant and, sadly continuous to do so even after removal."
"I'm 32 and about to get another one. No kids, none planned. Love not having hormones in my birth control. Don't try hormones: get this first."
"Overall, I love paragard! It's so nice not to have to worry about anything. Once it's in, you don't have to worry about pregnancy, taking a pill, getting a shot, etc. It also lasts 10 years.  My partner never expressed any discomfort with it either. He said he feels it sometimes, but it's not uncomfortable. However, I experienced pain when I got it in and now my periods are very heavy with typically more cramping and breast tenderness. I still love it though. It's also hormone free."
"I got it 6 years ago, in that time I have been losing my hair (I use to have a long braid ) I have gained 65 pounds that I can't loose, fatigue, sweating constantly, 2 or 3 periods a month that feel like I'm in labor like for real contractions. I'm going in to get it removed"
"I had used so many other birth controls before this one. The depo shot made me incredibly irritable and gain a lot of weight, nexplanon made me bleed like crazy and so did the Skyla. So I chose Paraguard because it was non hormonal. Ever since, regular periods, no weight gain, no mood change, and happier than ever. Plus it lasts 10 years. I'm so glad I finally found something that works for me. Only thing I noticed was that my cramps were a little worse. Not the intensity necessarily, just the frequency."
"I've had the ParaGard in for almost 6 months and wow I love it. The insertion wasn't too bad, as I had it done on my heaviest day of my period when I was "opened up" a bit more. It almost felt like a heavy bowel movement come back inside. There was a bit of pain for 10 seconds and it subsided. I'm now on month 5 and I've never had any spotting at all. The cramps and the flow of my period have gotten stronger, but not to the point of where it's unbearable. When it comes to intercourse my boyfriend can at times feel the tip of the string, but it's never been uncomfortable. I'd really recommend this if you're looking for an IUD but don't want to deal with the hormones."
"My experience with the paragard is not good. I'm getting it removed as soon as possible. I've had severe pain and constant headaches since I got it. My symptoms got so severe I ended up in the ER and the doctor didn't believe me, he said no way my symptoms were from the paragard IUD. I went home and started looking into it and I came to find out there are many other women who have had a similar experience. It seems it either works great or terribly. I just wish more doctors were aware of the possible side effects. I will hopefully get it removed tomorrow, as I cannot take this much longer."
"I absolutely have no negative review about Paragard. I am 23 years old and have been on hormonal birth control (tri sprintec) since I was 13 up until 22, when I decided to get the Mirena IUD. Because I was sick of taking a pill everyday and sore boobs I decided to try an IUD. I hated the Mirena. Made me absolutely crazy and I had a nasty brown rusty discharge for the 3 months I had it. So got the Mirena out- then went back to tri sprintec for a couple months and decided I wanted to be off of hormones, so I gave the Paragard a try. I absolutely love it. Duh the insertion is the worst, I honestly think it's bigger than Mirena too, but it's literally 30 seconds so suck it up. Instead of bleeding a lot like everyone says you have, I have even had shorter periods than I've had in the past. They only last 4 days as opposed to a week. I also haven't had any negative side effects such as cramps, or copper odor. I absolutely love mine."
"The insertion was more anxiety than anything. I didn't find it painful, just a bit of pressure. Periods have become very very heavy and pretty painful, but it's purpose of birth control, ease of use and out of sight out of mind type birth control is unbeatable. Also, I switched to this method because hormones did not agree with me and I couldn't be happier. The positives outweigh the negatives. I've had it for almost 2 years."
"My experience with Paragard has been great. I had it inserted about 9 months ago, 6 weeks after giving birth to my first child. I felt no pain whatsoever (my cervix was still soft from giving birth & I took a prescription-strength ibuprofen an hour before insertion). I had cramps that day and bled heavily for about a week. Since then my periods have been very heavy, which has been my only negative side effect. I never used to need more than regular tampons, but now I use pads because I bleed through super tampons so quickly. I have cramps for the first couple days of my period, but they aren't very painful (actually less painful than they were before I had it inserted - one of the benefits of having a baby) I never feel any pain or discomfort during sex & my partner never complains about being able to feel the string. Don't let all of the negative reviews scare you. If you do your research and know what to expect, it can be a really great option."
"I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PRODUCT. I had the Paragard for 2.5 years. During that time I developed severe anxiety, lower back pain, and iron deficiency anemia from the loss of blood during my period. I had a hair tissue mineral analysis which shows that I have toxic levels of copper in my system. I have also developed IBS type symptoms. Now I am trying the long process of detoxing the copper out of my body. Since removal 2 months ago I have lost 15 pounds (back to my normal weight) and my mood has stabilized."
"""I've been on hormonal birth control since I was 12 to help control endometriosis and then to prevent pregnancy after I had surgery to fix it. After I had my son at 29 (planned), I knew I didn't want to go back to pills (emotional, remembering to take them is a pain, etc), so I got Paragard - IT ROCKED!!
Unfortunately, 2 years in, I just had severe pain, so I went in and doctor found it slipped and my body was rejecting it, so she had to remove it and now I'm going back on pills (such a bummer).
I strongly recommend this IUD, it was hormone free and GREAT!!"""
"I've been on the paragard for about 2 weeks now (tried implant; didn't like it). Insertion was completely painful! Even with 800mg of motrin. Prior to insertion dr told me that I wouldn't spot and that I'd go back to normal a few days after insertion, but I've been spotting ever since insertion and I'm not one to spot b/w cycles. The first week I felt a burning sensation in my vag and thought it was a UTI so I got it checked out. They told me it wasn't a UTI or STD. They told me to wait the burning out since everything looked normal. A week later (week 2), the burning sensation is still there. I just want to lay in bed all day due to how tired I feel. The new symptom I feel today is more cramping (tolerable) and a bit more bleeding. I'm not sure if it's because I'm getting my period. I'm still deciding if I want to remove it or not. I'm going to wait it out a bit more to see if the cramping and spotting go away. I'll post later on for an update."
"""I had the copper IUD for about 6 months.
At first it was great. Light cramping, didn't feel so bad at all. Very convenient- I thought...
After a few months, my boyfriend started to complain about a smell down there.
I felt so embarrassed. But I didn't really notice anything besides fatigue, headaches, and an intense need for  urination. I would shower and noticed that even after I washed myself I'd smell maybe 30 minutes later.. a really weird musky scent...
I didn't get it removed still. Pills were inconvienient. However, I had no choice when I felt a horrible stabbing pain in my uterus.
It had shifted.
I couldn't even walk. I had to have friends take me to the hospital. Luckily they were able to extract it- but guess what? There was a clump of hair on it. HAIR. And the smell was putrid. I don't even know how long this was in my body for. I felt so relieved after. Never again!"""
"This is a positive review since I see nothing but bad reviews . I was one of those people who read the comments , blogs all that about getting it making me not want to get it and I'm glad that I went through with it ! Best decision I've made for myself and taking control of my reproductive health! . Not everyone body is the same so if it dosen't work for you try something else . I was on the Mini pill  with bad mood swings anxiety , weight gain was driving me nuts so I decided to get the copper IUD. Now getting it put it wasn't that bad I took ibuprofen before hand and I was on my cycle so it made it easy it's more like pressure and a 20 second mild cramp . My first cycle was heavy but it's been like that before birth control but the CRAMPS BOY OH BOY ! They are so sharp and painful  and my my period last up to 7 days . but I'll stick to it because I love having no hormones in me finally feeling myself after 4 years ."
"I write this while cuddling my 5 month old baby conceived while I had the ParaGuard implant in. Like many, I was told that the ParaGuard IUD was 99% effective and lasts 12 years. Well a year into its use I ended up pregnant. Luckily, my boyfriend and I were talking about having kids someday and luckily, the IUD was removed without any harm to my baby or myself. While we are totally in love with our baby, we were not ready for her. We had to give up our lives in LA and move to the Midwest where we could actually afford to live. Obviously, because of the move I changed OBGYNs. My new doctor said her office refuses to give patients the ParaGuard because they've had too many accidental pregnancies with it. I'm giving this two stars because during that year it worked, it seemed like magic. But there is no such thing as magic. This ParaGuard did not work, and I do not recommend it."
"HORRIBLE IDEA!!!! Never ever ever again will I get this nor will I recommend it. Unless you like being a major  cow screaming at people, no energy and gaining 26 lbs in about 2 months. Worst product ever!"
"After having my daughter in July of 2014, I had paragard inserted in November of 2015. Thing was going great, my period were regular little heavy but it was fine. By January of 2016 I found out that I was pregnant with my son."
"I switched to ParaGard from my combination pill. The pill had so many side effects that were starting to take a toll on my daily activities so I decided on an IUD. I've only had it for a month, but I'm certain I will not have it much longer. I anticipated discomfort and heavier periods. What I did not anticipate was the constant feeling like I was about to get my period. I have CONSTANT dull cramps which in turn makes it necessary for me to get to the bathroom as soon as I feel like I need to pee or have a BM. I feel like I'm bloated 24/7 and have no energy to do any of the things I enjoy. I wanted this for piece of mind about pregnancy since I live with my boyfriend but after reading reviews here, I'm not quite certain how it can claim to prevent them in such a high effectiveness. I know people who have negative experiences are generally more inspired to post about them, but the amount of pregnancies and expulsions I've read about on here make me feel like I've made up my mind."
"I twice have had the Mirena for it's full-term and decided to switch to ParaGard about 45 days ago.  I am so happy I did. A couple of the reason I wanted to switch was: it's a longer lasting IUD, it contains no hormones (I have hormone imbalance) and oddly--I wanted my period back.  I know most women would enjoy not bleeding, but after 10 years I missed it. I found I still experienced the depleted energy and heightened emotions of PMS, but I didn't bleed. Therefore, my bouts of tiredness and crabbiness couldn't be validated by getting my period and I felt crazy. I know ParaGard is supposed to intensify your period and make it worse and I was pretty worried about this. As a teen and young adult, I had rather awful menstrual cramps.  However, I had a full period already with the ParaGard and I did NOT find this to be the case.  Overall, I'm really happy I made the switch!"
"I had it for almost a year when I found out I was 4 weeks pregnant. I had it removed within the week and now my son is 18 months. We were not ready for him at the time but didn't feel we really had any other options. Of course we love him but got the IUD so we could choose when to have another child. All the pain to have it placed and removed, discomfort every time I had sex and it killing the mood because, yes, the women CAN feel it."
"I have never had children. Prior to the Paragard, I had the Skyla IUD, which did not work for me. I have had the Paragard for two months and am enjoying it! I make sure to take my multivitamins with iron to prevent anemia. My periods were slightly heavier, which were totally manageable with the help of OB tampons. I had heavy bleeding for 4 days and 2 days of barely existent bleeding ( I had 10 days of bleeding with the skyla, and 5-6 days is the normal duration of my period). I have not had any pain with this IUD other than right after the insertion. I love not feeling hormonal changes. I also did not feel breast tenderness prior to my period (?not sure if it's related). It's a good decision, I think! I also have not gained any weight, and actually lost 2 lbs. No bloating either!"
"I had an IUD placed back in 2009 since I knew I did not want to get pregnant until I had finished college and was married.  Well, life happened and I end up losing my brother early in life and going through an extended grieving period.  I am now 36 and ready to make babies so I went to have the ParaGard removed and a piece of the IUD was missing when it was taken out.  The removal was not painful so I am thinking that it broke some time ago and I didn't know.   I have been dealing with fatigue, anxiety and depression and am now wondering it if was related to the copper all along.   I have had two trans-vaginal ultra sounds, an X-ray and a hysteroscope performed with non results.   That little piece of plastic is still embedded in my body and I am not sure what it will take at this point to get it out.   DO NOT GET THIS IUD if you want to have children and/or avoid future surgery."
"I had an IUD for 6 years.  My periods became very heavy and long.  The IUD moved causing it to go to a ten day period. My Dr then attempted to remove it and found that an arm had broken off somewhere at some point.  They are now charging me for the surgery to find it.  I do NOT recommend this product."
"A positive review!  I have never had a child.  I was on BCPs for 20 years and intended to get the Mirena implant thinking the transition would be easier even though I was interested in being completely hormone free.  I missed a pill before I went in for the procedure and was told I either had to wait, or I could get Paragard because it functions as emergency contraception.  I went for it and I have been completely satisfied with Paragard.  I bled minimally at the time of insertion, once a day later, and since then it has been business as usual.  I have very minor monthly cramping just like I did before I took BCPs.  I still only shed for 3 days and don't even need menstrual products at night.   In fact, I had weird spotting for years on the pills and that has entirely disappeared since getting this IUD a year and a half ago.  I have never had many concerns with my reproductive health so maybe these things make me a better candidate but I hope this helps someone with their decision."
"""On the first month of insertion.  I was in the greatest amount of pain I have ever experienced and I was not happy about my decision to get this but... 
Ever since I was 11, I've had severe menstrual pain. This pain would be at a 9/10 on day 1 of my period. On the second day, 6/10 and so on for about 5 days.
The first month on Paraguard was like being on day 1 of my period non-stop. On some days, even worse. The bleeding was heavy and never-ending for 30 days. At times I had to crawl on the floor due to not being able to walk with the knife-like pain in my abdomen. 
After the first month, the pain subsided 100%. While I have heard of women having heavier & more painful periods on this IUD, my regular period (although longer and heavier) is now rated for pain at 1/10 or (at most) 2/10 pain on all days. I no longer fear the first day of my menstrual cycle!!
Lasts 12 years, never worry about taking pills, never worry about hormones, and my menstrual pain is gone."""
"I been on paragard for 3 months now and it's been great so far! My periods are always on time they last about 5 - 7 days no more then that and I have no cramps nor mood swings . No depression the only thing I have notice is I get a pimple here and there with this birth control but nothing major. And since I do bleed a lot during my period I take iron pills while I'm on my periods ( just a word of advice )"
"""I have used ParaGard for 3 years now and I really enjoy my life without hormones in my birth control. I wish I knew to take some painkillers before I installed Paragard as it would've helped with the cramps. 
Pros:
-You never have to remember to take your birth control or worry about missing your pill.
-Your period is regulated due to the fact you're not consuming additional hormones. 
-It's extremely effective.
-You don't get any of those hormone-induced side effects; Such is the case when you use other hormonal birth control methods.
-You don't have to worry about replacing it for 10-12 years.
-You can start having children as soon as it is removed.
Cons:
-Heavy cramping for the first several months. (I had heavy cramps for about 6 months.)
-Discomfort during sex. (The discomfort vanished after a few months)
-Does not protect against STDs, but then again, a lot of other methods don't."""
"I've had the paraguard for 8 years now, I got it after the birth of my daughter whose now 8 years old. I've experienced the heaviest cycles I've ever had in my life even after the 14 days are up I'm constantly breakthrough bleeding having severe cramps, bad mood swings, I hate everything about this and don't recommend it to no one"
"""Paraguard has given myself and other women copper poisoning and the health care system did not care. From the research I have done online, the methods used to test if paraguard causes copper toxicity are not accurate. Heavy metals are stored in tissues of my organs, not in my bloodstream. Yet, from what I read, the only available studies on copper toxicity of IUD's tested copper levels in the subjects' blood
I am experiencing feelings of just wanting these products to be adequately researched and tested!  (My comment can only include my own experiences)"""
"The worst thing happened to me! I should listened to my body. I'm in a severe pain all the time! And I'm tired of it. So I asked the clinic to removed it! They asked me to try the hormonal and I said straight no! It was my worst nightmare."
"I LOVE the copper IUD. Truly a miracle for me. I am in no way being paid or getting anything out of writing this review obviously. I just know from experience that unsatisfied customers are usually a very small percentage that speaks the loudest. Happy customers rarely leave reviews. Anyway, I've had mine for about half a year now. At first, it made my period really heavy for the first day of two. It also lasted longer. After just a few months, my period got lighter and went back to its normal flow. This month, my period is even lighter than it was before I started any type of birth control & I had absolutely no cramps. I haven't had any real problems with cramps, there was only one time that they were slightly uncomfortable. I absolutely love that the copper IUD has no hormones or weird chemicals. I try to keep to eating only organic foods because of how toxic and drug-minded our society is today and this IUD is perfect in that regard."
"I am 34yrs old. I'm actually on my last 6 months of the 10 years you can use it for.  I will not recommend this to you if you not a person that enjoy going to the doctor  every 2 months for BV, acne, gain weight, mix emotions,  bad cramps, heavy bleeding, unexpected bleeding, if you very fertile (go ahead). I am getting it taken out and getting  my tubes tied"
"I know we all have individual experiences with Paragard and I'm sorry for those women that it did not worked for you. As we all looked for what we think is the best for our body. I was nervous when I finally had it inserted and had heavy period for the first 4-6 months that it got my mom scared. To the point she begged me to have it removed. But I stood my ground and gave it the benefit of the doubt that this is the right contraceptive for me. And it is the right one! I have it for 8 years now and of course I have one day of heavy cramps for a day or two every cycle. But immodium believed me actually helped big time! I will finally be removing it next year as we are going to try for another baby. I will still get Paragard after I gave birth again."
"""I've had the Paragard in for just over 3 months and it's been a nightmare the entire time.  At first, I had serious cramping issues, which is to be somewhat expected.  But then it went downhill fast.  My first period was the longest, heaviest period I've ever had and I had serious period issues before.  This was so much worse.  Then came the yeast infection, which when treated resulted in BV.  Then, even after taking a probiotic while treating the BV, another yeast infection...then another round of BV.  This has been going on for two months now.  On top of that, I've had brown discharge the entire time.  The gyno said that was normal for the first month or so, but I've had it for 3 months.  It's gross, especially combined with the other issues.  Needless to say, sex has not been happening so I guess it's been a really effective method of birth control. 
I'm finally getting it removed and replaced with Mirena (which I didn't have a problem with) next week."""
"I've had it for about 3 months now and got it because hormonal birth control did not work for me. It made me extremely moody and depressed. I would gain 10-20 pounds and was constantly hungry. Finally decided to try this even though I was skeptical about the poor reviews. My period lasts about a week with heavier periods and definitely more cramps than I had but nothing unbearable. In my opinion no birth control is going to have no side effects so it is worth it to me. I do have slightly more acne than normal but I think it's due to the lack of hormones my body is used to from pills. It's been the best birth control for my body so far!"
"I got my first Paragard about 14 months ago. It was an easy choice because of reliability and the lack of hormones. I have been getting very severe cramps for the past 18 years of having a period, the cramping during the dilation of my cervix was not more severe than that although it did make me briefly weak. It evened out fairly quickly and I have honestly felt less severe cramps since I have been on it. The bleeding is a little heavier but not markedly so. I use a Diva Cup when I am on my period and last month accidentally didn't break the suction when I was removing it and this dislodged my Paragard so it had to be removed and I had a new one inserted today. For the new insertion, the cramping did not last as long as the first time(I was able to head back into work within an hour)."
"I got paragard a couple months ago. One week later after getting it  I broke out in hives and it wouldn't go away.  I did some research on the internet and I read of others having hives after getting paragard and once removed it went away. I read this about mirena iud also. 2 totally different iuds!  I went to my dr that put it in, and he told me that he never heard of hives resulting from any iud. Anyway the dr didn't want to remove it and told me to go to my primary doctor for the hives. I made him remove it then I went to my primary. My primary told me that I am getting hives because its a foreign object in my body and my body was fighting it. No less than 24 hrs after having it taken out my hives started to go away and then in 2 days totally gone! I believe that because  further research lead me to read people getting hives after getting breast implants too!  I believe my primary , that my body was fighting it since its a foreign object."
"""I honestly got SO sick from this IUD. My major symptoms included huge brain fog, depression, anxiety, constant urge to urinate, cold hands and feet, always bloated and 20 lb gain, and just generally always feeling ”off.”
Then randomly I was watching YouTube videos where a guy was talking about how you are more susceptible to candida if you have a copper IUD. Because I had at different points assumed I might have a Candida overgrowth, I decided to have the IUD removed & see if it improved anything. 
Honestly...  within a few days all of my symptoms were gone. 
I can't say whether an IUD is right for you or not, all I can do is share my story and reaffirm that we are all in control of our own personal health destinies. 
If something in your body doesn't feel right, you can choose to have it removed!"""
"I only had my Paraguard for 6 months and in that  6 months I had problems! When I got it put on it hurt a lot !! I had cramps for like 5 days but that's not the worse part. I also notice my sex drive was not high like it use to be. Sex just did not feel the same . Thoughout the time I had it  I also had over 8-9 urinary track infection and 2 yeast infections.  Whereas before getting it placed I never had had any and also after removal I didn't get any !! It got to the point where I couldn't even have sex because I was scared I was gonna get a uninary track infection . I would pee after sex , take cranberry pills , drink ALOT of water and I'd ALWAYS get a urinary track infection .It got to the point where I was feed up and just wanted it removed. The removal took only 10 seconds it didn't hurt! After getting it removed my sex drive went back to high and thank goodness I haven't had a urinary track infection for the longest! Best decision I made was removing the IUD"
"The first 2 years with ParaGard were good. I did experience insanely heavy periods (Bleeding out of super tampon and pad within 2 hours). I was able to loose weight and loved the idea of non-hormonal birth control. Fast-forward to year 2 - 2.5 with the ParaGard  and would not wish any of the symptoms I experienced on anyone else. I developed cystic acne (something I NEVER had, even as a teen) which left me still to this day with scaring on my chin. It increased dark hairs and spotting on my chin/lip area.  I also will have to blame the IUD on some incontinence issues, that were immediately resolved when I had removed the IUD. "
"""Let me say this: if you can do hormones, lucky you! 
I tried the pill a couple years back and ended up in the ER passing out because of the migraines they'd cause. So not worth it... then I found out I can't do hormones:(
So Para Guard was basically the only option I had! And so far I'm not regretting it!"""
"""Just got it inserted this morning. Was honestly terrified because of all the reviews and doctors telling me it'll hurt like anything to get it in as well as the cramps afterwards. 
The truth as of today: Insertion took about 10 mins. One pinch and 1 cramp due to the ‘sound' measuring the length of my uterus+ Another pinch and cramp when the IUD was inserted. That's it! 
Maybe it was because I expected a lot of pain... maybe it was because I had 800 mg of Ibuprofen 1,5 hrs beforehand. Also I've had very strong contractions ending in a miscarriage 3 months ago at 14 weeks pregnant... so I've known so much worse pain! 
5 mins later.... left the doctors  office with a mild cramp not stronger than when you need to take a poo lol. 5 hours in and I've already eaten, drunk and worked out with 0 discomfort."""
"Horrible gained lots of weight and developed thyroid problems.  I unable to lose any weight and looked pregnant all the time."
"I got the copper IUD after not being on birth control of any kind (except condoms) for 4 years so this reaction was not due to changing hormones. I respect if this birth control option works for you, but SERIOUS possible side effects are not being disclosed with this IUD. I've never been on antidepressants and I ended up on the highest does of Prozac with this. I went to urgent care and told them I was suicidal and didn't know WHY. I almost ended up in a  hospital with RACING paranoia. 7 months post removal and I'm on nothing and so at peace. Please listen to women who come in with copper toxicity issues with this IUD. This ruined my life. The worst part is there is nothing on the side effects list so I was in the dark wondering what was going on. The Paragard company said “the box says it's not a complete list of side effects” and “maybe we need to do more testing” (actual quote from the lady from Paragard on the phone). This IUD can be poison in the wrong body."
"I have gotten pregnant not once but twice using the Paragard.  The only reason I even gave it a three is because it kept me not pregnant for about 4 years the first time and 1 year 3 months the second time.  The insertion is uncomfortable but not extremely painful and only lasts about 30 seconds anyways. Periods will be heavier and maybe more cramping than hormonal birth control but really not that bad and it was great not having extra hormones in my body. If it kept me not pregnant I would probably be giving it a 9 or 10 if that tells you anything!   But it failed for me.... TWICE!!!"
"I'm 24. In the 2 years of having the copper IUD I developed horrible lower back pain resembling sciatica. I went from being 125lbs to 185lbs despite regular exercise. Before I always lost weight with no effort. My stomach bloated up, looked 7 mo pregnant all the time. I was fatigued and suddenly problems with frequent vaginal infections. I was only 22 and I felt like an old woman. I had it removed, felt instant relief. Overnight the bloat was gone, "sciatica" gone. No more aches and pains. Weight has melted off. I'm looking and feeling like my normal self. Doctors told me my symptoms weren't possible side effects from the paraGard. Copper resembles an estrogen in the body, an excess leads to weight problems. The IUD by design causes inflammation in the uterus, leading to high cortisol and suppressed immune system. Excess copper doesn't show up on blood work, it is stored in the tissues. Tissue analysis showed that I had toxic levels of copper."
"I have had ParaGard for almost a month now and so far I'm in love! The insertion was definitely painful. Not pleasant at all. I had pretty bad cramping the day of and the following days, Advil was my best friend. After like a week of cramps and bleeding, it began to get better. After two weeks, the cramps stopped and bleeding stopped. I don't feel it, my partner doesn't feel it! It's amazing!"
"I only gave the Paragard two stars because I did not get pregnant while I had it. However, the experiencen from the insertion to removal was a pure nightmare. Insertion was extremely painful (I feel like I was not fairly warned for the amount of pain I would experience). For the days following I experience horrible cramps and heavy bleeding. The first few months I was always crampy and my period lasted for 9 days. The first few days of each period were a nightmare. I would soak through a super tampon in under an hour. At my follow up appointment my gyno assured me my body would adjust and it was in place. I waited for my body to adjust for two years. These two years were filled with cramps that left me on the couch for days, no over the counter pain medicine offered any relief. I had constant pressure on my uterus as well. Each period I passed blood clots the size of golf balls. I finally had the IUD removed and am not lying when I say I felt instant relief."
"""I had Paragard for 2+ yrs.  So for 2+ years, I had horrible, I-can't-move-level cramps, periods that lasted about 10 days, and repeated yeast infections. I also had a lot of pain with sex. I went to the doctor constantly to be tested for various problems, and my tests always came back normal (except for the yeast infections). My doctor assured me that the IUD was fine. I tried all kinds of other cures, but my symptoms wouldn't go away.
Finally I got fed up and went to a new doctor. She immediately suggested I get rid of the IUD. And I'm so thankful I did! I switched back to the pill, and all my symptoms have gone away. My periods last ~3 days, I rarely have cramps (mostly minor when I do), I haven't had another yeast infection, and the pain with sex has decreased. Despite what my 1st doctor said, I am sure that my IUD was the culprit. The differences are night and day since I got rid of it. It was nice to not worry about pregnancy, but in the end the side effects were not worth it."""
"Painful intercourse from friction from string.  It was an extremely painful insertion.  I had fatigue, always “feel” something inside me, mood swings and weight gain."
"It's almost a week ago that I got the Paragard. I decided to switch to Paragard from hormonal birth control pills cause hormones made me gain weight. I also couldn't tolerate the hormones anymore cause I was depressed, my nipples hurt & I had vaginal dryness. The insertion was very painful, because my cervix was too small. My GP was also inexperienced. During the insertion I felt massive cramps & I also started to bleed which lasted for 4 days. I took 2 Naproxen hours prior to the insertion. After 10 years of feeling like a Zombie on birth control pills I finally feel myself again. I've lost a little bit weight, especially around my thighs, my nipples don't hurt & I feel less depressed. I also don't have massive food cravings like I did on the hormonal contraceptives. My acne is back unfortunately, but this is manageable with acne skincare products. I also suffer from vaginal discharge with little bit of blood, but in time I think this will go away. I think my body needs time to adjust."
"I had this IUD inserted two and a half years ago. At first I had mild cramping, heavy periods but I got used to that. Constant copious discharge was inconvenient but I wore panty shields every day but after a while just found myself constantly ‘coping' with the symptoms. I started to gain weight no matter what I did still not suspecting the IUD until I started thinking back to when I began to have  unexplained weight gain. I had it removed  5 days ago and I've lost 4 lbs no longer feel bloated all over and my blood pressure is now back to normal instead of the unusually high reading on paragard. NEVER  AGAIN!  For those of you who think we are being mean for posting a negative review, it's not meant to be harmful but helpful to other people suffering the same way. Everyone is different just sharing my experience so other people are aware as I wasn't for 2 & 1/2 years"
"This thing caused me to suffer from copper toxicity along with 12-14 day long periods bleeding so heavy I didn't even want to leave my house. Not to mention the constant stabbing pains any time I moved or bent over. Once I the IUD was out  my "period" stopped within 30 minutes and the pain was gone in seconds. Within 48 hours the symptoms of copper toxicity disappeared I have reported to the company itself and they were rude. So I took it further and reported to the FDA. My insurance didn't even cover the paraguard after the doctor said it was 100% covered."
"So I've had 2 Paraguards in my life, first one made my skin break out like crazy, took it out and got pregnant. The beginning of my pregnancy I had severe bleeding for the first 2 months such that doctors advised me that my baby wouldn't make it through the pregnancy, thankfully my baby did. Fast forward I got another one inserted, by the 2nd year I started breaking out like crazy, 8th year I started having severe and long 15 days plus periods, gained about 50 lbs and can't seem to lose weight no matter what. Will finally get it removed next week. Never again."
"The adverse effects from Paragard shattered my life and health and I would never recommend it to anyone ever."
"It was fine for 8 years. Then came bleeding and a lot of pain!!! It moved and it hurt so bad. It was so bad that the emergency room had to remove it using an ultrasound. Never Again will I put anything else in my body that doesn't belong"
"I had a ParaGard  IUD inserted shortly after the birth of my second child 11 years ago and had it removed within four months due to profuse bleeding which caused severe anemia and extreme fatigue.  I took high dose iron supplements for months afterward. I do not remember if the doctor I consulted with asked me if I had heavy periods or not, but I'm assuming she didn't because if she had I would have said "YES!!". Had she then recommended I not try it, I would have readily agreed. Please research the side effects of this product carefully and look into the effects of copper on the body prior to having ParaGard placed inside your body."
"""Just had it placed. Was so scared because of peoples reviews but it didn't hurt at all. My whole appointment was 8 minutes and it took less then a minute to set it literally. And I have only had very slight period like cramps.
My doctor would only place it while I was on my period to help with placement discomfort because the cervix slightly dilates while you're on your cycle."""
"""This device has ruined the past two years of my life. I have had severe cramps, blood loss during just one day of my cycle of what should be the amount lost during the entirety of a cycle, and copper toxicity issues. I have had heart palpitations without any previously, and recently went to the ER due to those. I have had severe back pains and anxiety. I recently had the IUD removed and these symptoms are subsiding. The back pain completely disappeared. 
 It sounds like a great option at first, but prolonged exposure to copper can cause many complications within you. Copper also affects your Adrenal system -which directly regulates hormones. So If you believe it is completely non-hormonal it is still indirectly (and significantly in my case) affecting your hormones. Please do research on this device before you just place a foreign object in your body. I would not recommend it to anyone."""
"By far having this IUD is the worst thing I have ever done to my body. I wish I had researched it more and actually enjoyed my new family feeling like myself rather than out of my mind. Also angry with my midwife for not telling me about the potential bad reactions."
"I had the Paragaurd placed in 2007 4 months later I was told that they could not find said IUD it must've fallen out BUT congrats I was 6 weeks pregnant!!!!! Then 2016-10 years later it perforated my uterus yet at that time  was told it was early onset menopause. Then 6 months later in the hospital for abdominal pain. Found it it now perforated my colon also. Obviously it never fell out it was still in my abdomen! I had to have an illiostomy for one year 4 months ago the IUD was finally surgically removed. Aug 2 2018 the illiostomy was reversed. It's been horrible"
"""I love it! Do not get this if you already have a heavy cycle!! I went from a 3 day period no cramping light flow, to a crampy normal to heavy flow! If your already have a heavy flow it will make it much worse! 
I love it though! The cramps are unreal some days but nothing medicine can't kick. If you can tolerate hormones definitely look into the hormonal IUD's  too, but I can't do hormones and this is perfect! Hope this helps!"""
"This IUD pierced through my uterine wall. I passed baseball sized clots for two days, and bled so heavily I was changi nga maxi pad and super tampon every 35 minutes. When my doctor sent me for an ultrasound the tech immediately told me something was wrong because she couldn't see the IUD and later found it in my cervix and it only had not gone lower because part was embedded in my uterine wall. Most painful experience of my life. I am still in excruciating pain."
"""For starters, I've never had children, and I am a 22 yo petite 5'0 small framed woman. I went through every birth control option I could possibly go through leaving me depressed, nauseous, sleeping all day. 
I finally went with Paraguard after 2 years off hormones and it was the best decision I've had. Insertion was the scariest part, I took 750 mg Ibuprofen.  It feels like a your cervix is 80% numbed and being stabbed while they stick a cold probe in. It also feels like a giant period cramp. Afterwards, I was in extreme pain for 2 days. Like really bad pain where I couldn't do anything and ibuprofen wasn't helping . I recommend if you have an insertion to have a weekend off. 
Otherwise, I've been normal since insertion. It changed my 3 day period into a 5 day heavy period. I was afraid my first period would be painful but it felt just a little more crampier. I feel a lot of these bad reviews are from people who got off hormonal BC and went straight to Paragard."""
"I have utilized ParaGard 3 times now. And absolutely love it. The first time was after my first child in 2005. Had it recommended by my the OB.. was a bit uncomfortable going in (each time ) and did have spotting a few days after each. But, had it removed prior to conception each time and now have 3 beautiful children.  One time it did slip out and had to be replaced but no other issues.  After my most recent child in 2015, my now OB recommended Mirena.... it was the worst 6mo of my life.... horrible headaches,  bleeding on and off all month every month.... cramping all the time.... went it and had it swapped back to ParaGard and have now gone almost 3 years without further incident.  I love that it has no hormones.  Have not gotten pregnant while it was in. And was able to conceive almost immediately after taken out each time. Never had any side effects and liked that my cycle was not affected, as awful as it can be sometimes, because of the absence of hormones."
"""The insertion hurt. From the sounding and the placement, to the cramps thereafter. The cramp that I had on insertion jerked me up off of the table. 
I was always aware that something was in my uterus. My first few periods were extremely heavy and nearly 12 days long. I had cramps that had me in tears, I passed a baseball-sized clot. 
For 1.5 years I dealt with painful periods and intense pains when I had a bowel movement. I had to buy Ultra absorbency tampons and change every two hours. 
It was hurting my quality of life and I went back on the pill, an option I wasn't happy about since breast cancer runs in my family. 
At 31, I am so happy I got the Paragard removed. I had a laparoscopic bilateral salpingectomy for sterilization and I would recommend surgery over the copper IUD for any woman who is not interested in having children or any more children.  It has left no foreign bodies inside of me, I still have normal periods with no hormone pills or copper devices."""
"Unlike many other reviews, I did not gain weight, have acne, and my moods weren't affected too drastically. My periods remained the same and my cramps were no worse than before. Essentially, no problems with it for three years... until I found out I was 8 weeks pregnant and had to get the IUD removed and have an abortion!"
"Do not use this"
"No I have not gotten pregnant while using paragard. But I did suffer from bleeding lasting 12 days, abdominal pain, terrible cramps, weight gain, and bloat since having this device put in. I cannot wait to get this thing removed from my body!"
"I had this in for roughly  2 years. It kept the babies away but it hurt all the time. Even positioned correctly and I had it checked often. Cramps were the most painful thing so I eventually got it taken out. It works but it hurts, and kept hurting all those years."
"Had my son almost two years ago and at my postpartum 6 week check up had the Paragard IUD put in. Now I have just found out I'm pregnant while IUD is still in place."
"I am in my early 20's and wanted something minimal, non-hormonal, and long term. The copper IUD  seemed like the best choice. I have Blue Cross Blue Shield and only paid the 25 co-pay. Doc did a great job of giving an overview of the procedure and  informing me of what was going on while she was inserting it. The most painful/bothersome part is the insertion, if you are like me who has not given birth or is not constantly sexually active, then you will feel your uterus respond. I had a really bad cramp during it but then subsided afterwards. However, it isn't that bad as it lasts less than a minute. Afterwards, I felt a bit dizzy and fatigued; spotting also occurred but then stopped a few hours after. It has been 6 hours now and I mainly feel bloated. Do take Tylenol, Ibuprofen, or Motrin. Hoping to be all clear and set to go for the next couple of years. Great decision as it's 99% effective. Do be aware the insertion is cumbersome and maybe increased cramping/longer periods."
"Do yourself a favor and stay off ALL birth control. This thing ruined my life and I still have severe health problems and debilitating pain YEARS after having my doctor reluctantly remove it."
"I did not get pregnant. However, I did get anemic, severe bleeding (10 or more days every month), severe pain with menstruation, insertion and removal, and repeat bacterial infections. None of these problems were present before insertion or since removal."
"Well it works for birth control but I did have skin problems probably due to no hormones. But there were also changes to my mood in terms of PMS and depression. I always felt like I was in a fog and had anxiety. Recommend just taking the pill at least you would have clear skin and your mood will be under control and lighter periods"
"I switched from the Mirena IUD to Paragard IUD. Lasted for about two months until one day I find out  I'm pregnant!"
"""I had the copper IUB (interuterine ball) inserted about 4 months ago. Insertion was quite painful. I had to sit down for half an hour afterwards and eventually threw up before I could leave the clinic.
After insertion I didn't have pain, but I had non-stop bleeding. My gyno said this is normal and the bleeding should stop within a few weeks. So I waited. 
But weeks became months, and the bleeding showed no signs of slowing down. After three months, I went back to my gynaecologist. She prescribed me Primolut N (a synthetic form of progesterone) for 10 days.
IT WORKED. After taking the Primolut pills for 10 days, I had cramping and heavy bleeding for 3 days (seriously - terrifying amounts of blood came out of my vagina), and then the bleeding stopped altogether.
This has been a bloody, painful, and expensive journey, and I've ruined almost all of my underwear.
Note: I am a 31-year old woman, 5"" tall weighing 97 pounds. I live in Switzerland, where health insurance is privatised."""
"I've had mine in for about two years. Over the last several months I've noticed severe episodes of depression, up and down spikes in mood. I have had intense bleeding (going through 3 super tampons in one night). I've gained weight which could be due to the lack of motivation for 7-9 days of my period along with food cravings. I don't feel normal. I'm legitimately nervous for my period each month knowing my mood will be so low and irrational. I've made an appointment to take the IUD out as that is the only thing that I have changed. I try to live a very healthy lifestyle."
"I had to get an ultrasound for something unrelated and only a couple months after having it inserted the ultrasound tech told me that my body had expelled my paragard. I had another one put in and at a 3 month check in that one had been expelled from its correct placement and out of place as well. It creates irritation in your body and if your body doesn't like it, it gets rid of it. Didn't work for me."
"I have had serious problems with my paragard. Contraction (not menstral) pains since my daughter was born almost 3 years ago. It turns out there are many more symptoms than the pamphlet includes. Not sure if I will be able to conceive again."
"I'm 24 yrs old and have had the Paragard IUD for about 2 yrs now. IT's a great birth control so I recommend it for anyone. THERE ARE A FEW THINGS TO BE AWARE OF. Painful cramps and heavier bleeding IS TO BE EXPECTED. I get my period EXTREMELY regular so I know exactly when & what's the change. NO birth control method is perfect but I feel Paragard IUD is an amazing product. The MAIN and MOST IMPORTANT reason why I have Paragard IUD is because of my severe migraines. I appreciate the fact that my IUD does NOT interrupt or worsen my migraines (according to my GYN, my neurologist, and MYSELF)"
"Severe constant cramping. Heavy blood flow - two super plus tampons an hour. Anxiety, depression, relationship issues...had it for two years..so yeah it stopped me from getting pregnant..but at the risk to my health"
"I've booked a appointment to have my copper coil removed as I've been struggling with a variety of dreadful symptoms. Having it inserted was dreadful, 2 days after having it in I began having extreme anxiety and depression, pain in my feet and legs, mood swings, brain fog and confusion, breast tenderness, constant spotting and bleeding after sex, occasional metalic taste in my mouth, fatigue. At times I've felt so nauseous and tired I've believed I could only be pregnant again also I had painful stubborn ACNE. The symptoms are horrendous and I would strongly recommend women not have it. If you already struggle with mental or physical problems then definitely do not try this contraception. I hoped to be one of the few who suited this but unfortunately its been one of the worst decision I've made. My periods have not been very painful but the bleeding is beyond heavy and the clots are massive. I can't wait to have it removed."
"I got Paragard after my youngest child's birth in 2007. The insertion wasn't too bad. I was pretty crampy for a couple days, then it went away. I had lactational amenorrhea for 18 months before my periods resumed. Then they wouldn't stop. I used a Diva cup and I would fill the cup up in about an hour and a half. I figured I'd give my body a few months to get used to it. My periods would last around 25 days. Then I'd get maybe a day or two with no bleeding then it would start again. I started using iron supplements because the blood loss was so much. One day six months after I started getting my periods again, I had forgot my liquid iron supplement that morning and I nearly crashed the bus I was driving because I felt so faint. So many people could have died. I called my doctor and in no uncertain terms told her I wanted it out and I wanted it out now. Thankfully the bleeding stopped right away and I haven't had any permanent issues. My husband got a vasectomy a month later."
"""I have had this in for a year. I am 46. I did not become pregnant while using Paraguard, so that part worked.
I have however had thousands of dollars worth of blood work, lost sleep, damaged relationships because of mood and depression, 20 lbs weight gain, foggy memory, anxiety, panic attacks. My most recent blood work indicates low cortisol levels, and I started researching the Copper  toxicity and I was SHOCKED to see every single one of my symptoms listed here. Of course, it could be that I am old, menopausal and tired...but I was energetic, active and much happier before this thing went into my body."""
"I had severe cramping and bleeding all the time. I began to get really bad hot flashes and anxiety, was tired all the time but couldn't sleep. I was only 34-36. The bleeding and cramping got so bad I couldn't move and my doctor didn't know what was causing it. Finally after passing large clots and filling pads up every 30 minutes I was rushed in to get an ultrasound. My IUD had moved and implanted into my uterus. I had it removed and my doctor confirmed that it had probably been like that the whole time I had it in for over a year. I also had copper toxicity."
"""I had paragard for about 5 years and during that time the device did what it said- prevented pregnancy- but also a great deal more.
From the beginning my periods worsened, face broke out for abut 6 months in a hive type rash on one cheek. From there the symptoms kept coming such as headaches after exercise, lowered libido, increased PMS which finally built up to full on PMDD during my luteal cycles. Please understand that copper, while not a hormone itself; does effect estrogen which leads to a slew of emotional issues not to mention bone loss and possibly increased cancer risk."""
"After deciding to have long term birthcontrol I chose paragard as it was the non hormonal option. I got it done 10 weeks after the birth of our second child in 2016.  Then I started having irregular cycles but then I thought may be I needed to give it some time. It got to a point where I had severe bleeding for 20 days and after a two week break it would start all over again .Finally with all the blood loss I became anemic and also started feeling dizzy, with two very young kids. Life was turning out to be awful so after 10 months I got Paragard taken out.  I was treated for anemia and finally started feeling better. Long story short - this has scared me to an extent where I cannot go near an IUD again."
"Was excited about a hormone free option but this made me have 14 day periods with only a week between periods. No cramps just the heaviest longest periods ever. I became anemic from the blood loss. Had it in for about a year. The periods got longer an heavier slowly as time went by so I didn't notice it straight off. Do not recommend"
"Did have heavier periods for first year but now have much lighter periods."
"""I would not recommend the Paraguard IUD to anyone who has not given birth before or already has heavy periods and cramps. The insertion was a 7/10 on the pain scale (compared to the insertion for Kyleena, a variant of the Mirena). I spotted for two weeks after the insertion. 
The pain did not kick in until my period cycle. I was never someone who had super intense periods, though the flow was moderately heavy. However, after getting the copper IUD my periods got SO much worse. Like going from a 8/10 on the easiness / cramps scale to a 2/10. The flow was crazy, I would leak through a tampon in 2 hours AND fill an extra protection pad on my heaviest days (Day 1, 2, and sometimes 3). 
I also started experiencing deep uterine cramps that were extremely uncomfortable and unlike anything I had experienced.
While the copper IUD does the job of preventing pregnancies (for me), I would not recommend it due to the effects it had on my period."""
"Paragard has been great for me. The transition from the pill to the paragard took a while, but everything is great now. Hurt like anything going in, but I feel so much better off of hormones. My periods were heavier for the first two months, but went back to normal at month 3."
"I had paragard inserted 1 month after baby #2 (2013). My OBGYN recommended this form of birth control because of the fact that  was breastfeeding and it contained no hormones.  I have had it in place for almost 5 yrs now. About 1 month and a half ago I missed my period  have had off periods before so figured I was stressed and all. I chose to ignore it because the  thought that I could be pregnant was not a possibility I was on birth control!  I started getting symptoms again I chose to ignore them (denial). Last week I took and a home preganancy test and it came out positive. I went to see my OBGYN and indeed I was in fact 8 weeks pregnant with IUD (paragard) still in place. Now I find myself with the most difficult decision in having to terminate pregnancy and remove IUD."
"I had the copper IUD for about 3 weeks and I finally got it removed this morning. First, I got it inserted and the first week I was having contractions and bleeding blood clots. Very heavy bleeding. It was so bad that I would get chills from the pain. Second,  I started to have panic attacks and my anxiety felt off the charts.  Third, my brain felt super foggy. My brain felt like I was off on a cloud and I couldn't focus at work. Fourth, I felt depressed and moody. It was like my emotions were up and down and I couldn't help it. Fifth, I felt bloated and fatigued. I was told numerous times that this IUD didn't have hormones, but it sure had something in for me to get symptoms like this. I know that every woman is different, but with my experience I would recommend the Mirena IUD over the Paragard IUD ANYTIME. I had both, and by far Mirena is better. For now, I'll stick with the old school birth control- "The Pill.""
"Pelvic inflammatory Disease. Ruptured uterus. Multiple abdominal abscesses. Emergency hysterectomy. Colectomy. Colovesical fistula. Postoperative stroke with seizure disorder. Seven months of IV antibiotics. Two open surgeries. 8 inch vertical scar. Depression. Anxiety. PTSD. Any other questions?"
"I was not told ahead of placement of the risks of paragurd. With 2 weeks of placement I'd been diagnosed with a pelvic infection, ultimately being diagnosed with pelvic inflammatory disease. I have no history of STD / STI. This can happen to anyone. They told me after the fact that there was a 1% chance, but after doing some digging I found that it is common. Also, most common too soon after delivering a baby. My doctor suggested and placed this 8 weeks post partum."
"When I first heard about the Paragard I was so excited there was a non hormonal birth control and immediately made an appointment to get inserted. I did little research because I heard it's amazing. Getting it implanted was truly the worst pain I have ever felt (didn't help she was showing someone how to do it either). I have had for 18 months and am finally over giving it chances. I have horrible unbearable plans that leave me on bed rest during my cycle, constant headaches and always drowsy. I used to only have a 3 day cycle now mine is 9 to 10 days of extremely heavy flow."
"I've had it for a year and a half. Insertion hurt but was quick. At first, the cramps that came along with my period were bad, I'd stay home some nights to put a heat pad on my back and take Tylenol. Mind you, before the IUD I NEVER had cramps in my life, so thats something to keep in mind. After about 6 months, the cramps somewhat settled down, but are still present. Another thing is the heaviness of my period. Ever since I got the IUD there are always about 2 days during my period where my flow is EXTREMELY heavy. I'm talking about changing a big pad every hour or two. I began using a menstrual cup which holds much more blood, and even then I'll have to change the cup every 3-5 hours. Its during these 2 days of heavy flow that my cramps are very present, even now. Otherwise, my flow is pretty light, and my cramps are minimal. Also I get very mild cramps here and there about 5 days before my period which lets me know its coming. Its all up to whether or not the pros outweigh the cons."
"I've had mine for 10 years with a lot of cramps and yeast infections.  Now it's stuck in me so that I have to get it surgically removed. This is ridiculous I'm scared to go and get to surgically removed but I have to.  This is the worst birth control no one should be allowed to get this"
"After my second child I decided to get the IUD copper but once it was inserted and  time passed and I had Pelvis pain every time I menstruated so bad it hurt to walk. Caused  high anxiety , no sex drive, bad depression, always tired , ate healthy and exercise but weight didn't change, brain fog couldn't think straight it was a mess! I thought this was my postpartum depression so I took care of it like my first born when I had issues with postpartum before but nothing helped. Not knowing it was the IUD I thought I'm just struggling stressed out mother. My doctor removed it and I told him if these symptoms had to do with IUD and he said  oh no ,no hormones . This is probably postpartum. 3 days later I feel like myself again for the first time in ages. This wasn't postpartum, this wasn't  just mom new life as a Mom - it was this iud. So many women struggle with this and it made realize I wasn't alone"
"""Paragard is terrible! Five years of living hell!
Brain fog, anxiety, depression, personality shifts, cramping, week long heavy bleeding, racing heart, adrenal dysfunction, food allergies.
The worst! Copper and estrogen are tandem, so think twice! It will raise your estrogen levels! And cause copper toxicity in most women! Do your research."""
"I've had my implant for about 3 years now, the only complaint that I have is the cramping around my period is sometimes unbearable (but manageable). I regularly check to make sure it's in place, so far so good! The procedure of getting it implanted is the most uncomfortable part though. However if you've had a pap, it won't be an unfamiliar feeling. No mood swings, no weight gain, no happy accidents!"
"I got the IUD Paragard! THIS IS THE BEST form of birth control I have tried so far!! I was on the pill for about 3 months and gained 8 pounds from it. Had the IUD inserted a week ago and it was NOT painful at all!!!! I have not gained any weight from this birth control and that is one of my biggest pet peeves and something I truly have a concern about. I recommend an IUD to anyone who wants a contraceptive that doesn't interact with your hormones or screw the up. When I was on the pill I was acting so whacky and forgetful all the time it was insane!!!!! After getting it inserted I didn't go to the gym for about two days keeping my activity to a minimum and being cautious. I do fear the risks that involve IUDs but it is something I am willing to take. I did have some bloating for about two or three days after insertion but nothing since then. I haven't gotten a period yet since the insertion but I am due to have one any day now so we will see how that goes!!!"
"I never been on birth control  before, I never been pregnant either. I wanted something that had no hormones, so I thought the copper iud sounded awesome because you don't have to think about it. I have had my iud for 4 months now. The first month was fine I had no problem, no cramping or nothing and it only felt like a period cramp x10 for like 5 seconds when the iud was inserted. The second month rolls around and I've been bleeding for 3 months every single day, I have to wear a pad everyday because it's more than just spotting. I wanted this to work for me but unfortunately it's not and my bleeding is not getting any better. My doctor says I'm one of the rare cases that this iud just dose not work. I'm thinking to switch over to the hormonal iud to stop bleeding."
"So I got the copper coil yesterday. I was bracing myself for the inevitable agony before me and being a virgin and not being on my period I knew it would be so much worse for me. I thought I would be doubled over in pain for weeks! It was all over in ten minutes. Afterwards I felt absolutely fine! I didn't have any cramping and although I took the day off work I could have easily done eight hours.  I was delighted to have done it and at the moment at least it seems the copper coil is right at home in my uterus and I have experienced absolutely no distressing symptoms that some women report. I am thrilled. It is the second day now and while I have had a few mild spots of blood I went back to work and didn't even notice the coil. So now I am hoping my period will be as manageable as these first two days! So far I give it ten and please do not let the negative reviews scare you. It's early days but at the moment it appears to be one of the best decisions I have made for myself :-)"
"I had the Paraguard removed after a month. First of all insertion was very painful (and I'm no weenie).  My doctor made me sit afterward for about 20 mins because she was nervous to let me drive. My periods were heavier than they had ever been and I experienced cramping (which was unusual for me)  I had the Mirena a few years earlier and loved it! On the Mirena  periods disappeared after 6 months and before that very light. The only reason I tried the Paraguard was because it lasted 10 years instead of five. Needless to say shortly after getting the Paraguard removed I got another Mirena put in and am in love with it all over again!"
"I've had the IUD inserted for a year and a half now. I decided to try it out after I gave birth to my second child. I knew from the beginning that periods would be heavier with more cramping, but I feel that so far is been ok. However, this past weeks I been spotting every day nonstop. It's almost 3 weeks now that I'm spotting every single day. Some days the spotting gets a little heavier and I think my period is about to come but then the next days it goes back to just simple spotting. I've been researching and it saids that some of the side effects are to spot in between periods, but I wonder if almost 3 weeks is normal? Idk. I will be making an  appointment with my GYN to follow up and double check. Have anyone else experience the same as me?"
"I love the Paraguard. Beats having hormones 24/7 or having to remember to take a pill. Cramping is a little worse along with back pain when it's the time of the month but nothing unbearable. My first period was SUPER heavy, but now totally manageable and back to how it was before getting pregnant with my second."
"If you can put up with cystic acne, headaches, gallbladder failure, abdominal pain, bloating, hair loss, IBS, torn joints (knees) liver pain, food intolerances, severe contraction pains, severe bleeding, and low libido  AND INSOMINA then paraguard is for you! These symptoms accumulated over 5 years. You won't notice right away until you start wondering what is wrong with you. My doctors tell me I am “getting older ...” but this symptoms aren't from old age! Don't get it! Nightmare!"
"I have had the ParaGard for about a year and a half. I love it so much! I use to take the pill, but it caused my sex drive to go down to practically nothing... and even if I did want it, certain things wouldn't get wet enough... if you know what I'm saying. With ParaGard there is abosolutly no issue. No weight gain, a healthy sex drive, moisture in all the right places. I haven't given birth control a second thought in a year. It's amazing, seriously consider it!"
"Got IUD placed 6 weeks after having my baby in 2010. I took 2 ibuprofen an hour before and felt a painful but short pinch during insertion (3/10). I was crampy the rest of the day and had more crampiness than usual during period for a few months after once it finally came back—completely manageable with ibuprofen. This was the only long term option for me bc I have a history of clots and can't take hormonal birthcontrol. I've had it for 9 years and will get another especially now that insurance pays for it. Worth it to not worry about getting pregnant and I like not having to fumble around w bc when I am w my husband."
"Had Paraguard inserted at my six week check up postpartum.  Took ibuprofen as instructed before insertion. Had minor pain and spotting but was fine after a day. Had no effect on how heavy my periods were once they returned but I do think I had more cramping the first six months. I have had this IUD for 9 years with no problem, and I will get another to make it to menopause. I can't use hormonal birth control due to risk for clots, so this was the most fail-safe, cost-effective option available. At present if you have ACA-compliant insurance it is covered (was not when I got mine but it was worth every penny). Great choice for birth control esp. if you have already had a child (easier insertion)."
"""Getting the Paragard IUD inserted was one of the most painful things I've ever experienced. I cramped and bled, worse than my worst period, for 5 days after insertion. The pain was unbearable, my back and legs seized up, and on the 6th day I went back to the Dr. to remove it. They told me there were no signs of infection and that they weren't sure why it hurt me so badly, and I was told the cramping and bleeding should only last a day or two. Well I'm on day 5 and I'm still bleeding and cramping. I had to go to the ER and get an ultrasound, I was told that everything looked normal but that that have heard of this happening with the removal of Paragard, and to just keep an eye on the bleeding and hope that it stops soon. 
There's absolutely nothing online or on the Paragard website that mentions that this is ""normal,"" but the ER doctors said that it's something they've seen before. I'm still waiting to feel normal and pain-free again, and I only had the IUD in for 5 days..."""
"""I had a very bad experience with paragard from the very first day until I had it removed (3 months).  I was almost constantly cramping, some days were better than others but always at least a dull pain and just walking it made it worst.  Cramping during periods was severe and nearly debilitating.  I had my period or was just bleeding nearly the entire time.  Periods were also very heavy.  Sex was painful and with all the bleeding, let just say I didn't feel very sexy any how.  
After insertion I experience symptoms of associated with IBS (which I don't have).  I could not find this listed as a side effect anywhere other than associations with copper toxicity.  I never experienced anything like it before and a day or so after it was taken out the symptoms where gone.  Symptoms were excessive gas, constipation, severe pain and cramping prior to bowel movements—all of which ceased upon removal."""
"""I have had the paraguard IUD for 4.5 years. Having it put in caused me absolutely no pain at all. No cramping or bleeding. Until the last 6 months or so its been amazing. The side effects were that my periods were a bit heavier, and sometimes when I have to poop it caused me cramps. 
Recently however my periods have gotten extremely heavy. They have been so forceful as to push out super plus tampons. This last period lasted for 7 days straight of heavy bleeding. Before the IUD my periods would be 3 days with a light tampon. It will now cause severe cramps after intercourse occasionally. I am now seriously considering getting my tubes tied because this is no longer worth it, but it I loved it the first 4 years and recommended it."""
"LIFE SAVER . I got mine inserted 2 months ago and it has been the best ! I recommend  to anyone looking for a NON hormonal birth control. I was so hesitant about getting it inserted after reading hundreds of negative reviews BUT has worked a treat :) YES I have longer periods with slightly more bleeding but nothing compared to the side effects I had from trying several types birth control pills and and the implanon. I really lost my self on both due to the prolonged side effects of toxic, synthetic hormones ragging around my body .... BUT SERIOUSLY JUST GIVE IT A GO ! if you hate the idea of messing with your natural hormones like I do and want 99.9% effective birth control pill its perfecto. P.S I haven't had any children, I'm in my early 20's  and the insert was also very mild on the pain scale without taking any pain relievers."
"I've been on ParaGard for three years, the side effects grow worst with time. It's beyond me, why this information is not shared amongst the various health website. I thought I did a fairly good job researching. PMS and bleeding grew worst and worst. I mean, the IUD is great for contraception and convenience. However, I'm fully prepared to go back to other birth control methods. The side effects are becoming unbearable. PMS is frightful, my husband agrees. There's an entire forum on FB that warns about the issues, I would have never gotten it if I would've known this. Well actually, I'm pretty sure I would've still given it a try. What doesn't work for others usually work for me, I normally don't experience side effects... at least that what I thought. I filled four diva cups within the first 24 hrs of my period. That's the average for the entire duration of a normal period. I'm 31, I've always had amazing/normal cycles, no PMS, used 1 diva cup per day for 3-4 days."
"Got the IUD after my daughter was about a year and a half. At first everything seemed normal. I was stressed out of course being a new mom. About 2 years later I noticed how crazy depressed I would get before my period. I would also lash out on everyone. I was extremely emotional. I ignored it. But several months later I started getting panic attacks and anxiety. I use to get attacks when I was a teen so I knew exactly how to cope, but it kinda started making me stressed out. Then I started getting odd thoughts that didn't make sense and brain fog. It was creeping me out. I started googling and realize I had  Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) which is severe PMS. I had no Idea why I would have this? I tried working out  and eating better. Nothing worked. Then one day I typed in copper IUD and PMS. A thousand articles showed up. Woman telling the same story as me. I called the doctor had it taken out immediately. Its been 3 months now and I feel better. Research birth control. The human body doesn't understand foreign objects."
"I've had the Paraguard in for 9 months now. I initially had very painful and heavy periods but after being on hormonal birth control that messed me up, I was happy to put up with this. My periods are now very regular, light and short. I have some mild cramps the first two days but nothing out of the ordinary. The rest of the month it's amazing to be protected against unwanted pregnancies with no input from myself."
"My doctor and myself decided that Paragard was the safest way to go due to me having had blood clots from (well what was said to have been from) a previous birth control. It's been awesome so far... I've always had bad period cramps so the cramping isn't an issue for me. My only issue is bleeding from sex... Is this common for anyone else?"
"Don't overlook this IUD, especially if you react badly to artificial hormones. I tried at least 5 different hormonal birth controls before finally giving the Paragard a try because I was afraid of the side effects. However, I've had it for a couple of weeks and it's totally manageable! I will probably give another review in a couple of months, though. The periods are definitely way heavier than my normal flow, and I've already had two periods since insertion, but I'm hoping it will level out soon. The cramps are fine and I still respond to my normal pain medication (I take 400mg Ibuprofen for cramps with no problems). Please don't let the bad reviews of the Paragard scare you away! After so many different birth control methods, this is so far my favorite."
"I got my copper IUD 2 years ago. I took Ibuprofen extra strength before, but the pain was excruciating. I nearly fainted. I couldn't stand for half an hour. The cramps were intense. Fast forward 2 years, my periods have gone from 5 days of moderate bleeding to 7-8 days of extremely heavy bleeding. Some days I soak through super plus tampons AND pads in just a couple hours. And never mind the spotting which happens after sex, before my period AND after, and at any random time. My iron is the lowest it's ever been. I'm exhausted, my sex drive is non existent, I experience brain fog almost 24/7, and my anxiety has never been so bad. I have gone back to school in the last year, which is likely contributing to my symptoms, but having been through college before I am not convinced that my symptoms are entirely due to that. After hearing some similar stories from people who had the copper IUD and who felt better after it was removed, I am now planning to have mine removed."
"ParaGard is a nightmare, I had mine for over 4 years and for the last year and a half I thought I was dying! I've been to 10 different doctors for over 25 different symptoms caused by this piece of garbage toxic product.  If you are planning on getting this IUD be aware of copper toxicity because it will happen and doctors will  be ignorant to the fact that the IUD is causing it.. prepare for 5 years of awfulness."
"I only had the Paragard for 2 months, and just had it removed today. The insertion process wasn't all that bad, just some intense cramps for a couple seconds. I did have crazy bad cramps after the insertion for a few days though. The first month was fine. My period lasted a while (9 days) but I figured that was normal because I had just gotten the IUD. However, after the first month is when things really started taking a turn. I had a really short cycle, and after 2 weeks, I was on my period again. However, this time, it lasted for 2 and a half weeks. My doctor even prescribed a BC pill to stop the bleeding. Even that didn't work! I started experiencing some really intense cramps on top of the bleeding. (It was REALLY heavy, too!) Finally had enough, and called to have it removed today. The minute she took it out, I felt immediate relief. Turns out that the Paragard was too large for my uterus, and it had been stabbing me for 2 months, and trying to expel itself."
"It was more of a mental problem for me than physical. Never had any cramping or pains, maybe a little discharge problems between periods but the main concern for me was feeling depression, anxiety, isolation, tiredness all the time, mood swings affecting my marriage! I never suspected my IUD to be the problem but it all started after I had it put in about 2 years ago and slowly progressed to being very noticeable now; it had me considering going on anti-depressants!"
"""Desperate for non-hormonal birth control, I had a copper IUD inserted. I am nulliparous (no kids). The IUD insertion was excruciating and for 4 months after it I was bloated and had terrible cramps. The cramps (during PMS, mostly) slowly got better, but never even close to being as mild as mine were pre-IUD. They were debilitating for 2-3 days a month.
I bled about 4X as much with the copper IUD as before it and ended up with very low iron. Additionally, I was diagnosed with Bacterial Vaginosis and painful bladder syndrome (also known as interstitial cystitis) after having the IUD for a year. The gynecologist I went to, to seek help said that both of these conditions were caused by the copper IUD and that he never prescribes copper IUDs because of the issues he sees with them. 
The Bacterial Vaginosis is resolved, post IUD removal, after a course of antibiotics, but I still have painful bladder syndrome and have to take an EXTREMELY expensive medication to deal with the symptoms."""
"The WORST. I don't like the effects of hormonal birth control, so opted for this. After insertion, cramps were so bad I couldn't move; would have to stop walking; felt nauseated, light-headed, couldn't breath the pain was so bad. Felt as if I were being stabbed. Weeks later, sharp back pains. Radiating pain down my legs, hairloss. Doctors said it is not the IUD, even did blood tests to check my thyroid levels. First 3 cycles were unbearable, but only improved slightly over next several months. My periods last 2 wks, 5 days of which are heavy. Before, I had 4 day periods, 1 heavy day, only 1 day of cramps and barely needed medicine. Now, I take NSAIDs around the clock for 2-3 days. At risk for stomach ulcers. I lost interest in sex. I denied that this was all the Paragard. I started to feel more depressed and did more research. Having it taken out tomorrow. Not worth denying connection after 9 months of no other possible explanation, nor possible inflammation or other longterm effects."
"After 3 months of ParaGard I've had it removed today. It was not for my body at all. The stomach pain was awful, back aches, leg cramps  acne breakouts and constantly bleeding was way more than I bargained for. It's no way this should be in anyone's body. Once it was removed within 1 hour every  symptom I had for 3months was GONE!!  Certain symptoms are not normal over a period of time and your body will let you know, don't ignore it or listen to your doctor and keep waiting months for symptoms to go away or you just get use to it...listen to YOUR BODY!!!"
"I found this product to be effective as a contraceptive. However, there were a lot of issues I had with the overall experience with it. The first being the insertion. I found it to be painful and really should have been an indication for me of what I was about to go through. The next being the cramps, constant bleeding & foul smell. Every single day for 4.5 months I was bleeding (all different shades), the other times my gyne had proscribed me something to stop it... which it did for 3 days max but then like clockwork it returned. I eventually had it removed and 4 days later I was back to normal no bleeding no foul smell."
"""I'm 10mths post partum (period not returned. Used natural cycle calendar before for contraception before) Dr convinced me to get copper IUD as I'm so against drugs.  Procedure was fast, pain free. Took naproxen 20mins before. Light headed after for 5mins. Drove home, light cramping rest of day, no spotting. Thick, jelly like, smelly discharge for 1 month.  Still no period 3 months in but definite side affects making big negative changes in my life. I suspect copper poisoning. Seems like constant PMS.
1. Cranky, short tempered, snappy
2. Zero life motivation.  Before insertion I was kicking major business goals & family/house hold was running smoothly. Life was great. Suddenly I'm a different person. Depressed, no motivation, simple life tasks are a massive challenge.
3. Zero energy - I was working out regularly, not now, no energy or motivation. 
4. Bloated - most days look like I have a massive pregnant belly when before completely flat.  Not sure if these specific side affects are worth the massive negative life changes."""
"I've had mine in for 4 years now and suddenly over the past 3 months I'm now getting a stabbing pain on the bottom left side and my boobs so painful. It hurts so bad that it wakes me up and during sex  it stabs me and my boyfriend can feel it. I'm getting it removed soon. It worked but now I'm in pain and hate having sex!!"
"Best choice for my needs. I am on my second ParaGuard. I had my first for 10 years without any issues. I am now 3 years into my second, and I am still without issues."
"I'm glad I didn't see these reviews before! I had mine in for 6 years with 0 issues. I used a menstruated cup and didn't have issues with heavier flow. Removed to have a second child. I'm curious, most of the negative reviews I heard, prior to 6 years ago, happened with women who had given birth vs not given birth. I wonder if that's the case on many of these negative reviews? Also, I would never have thought to comment on this if we weren't having our second child. Since we are I am researching if any new non hormonal options exist. After 6 years plus you don't think about writing a review unless it's a horrible experience."
"I had gotten the copper IUD just 3 months ago and had it removed today. At first it was just a little cramping , nothing I couldn't handle. Then I was in constant pain. I had chest pains, back pain and kidney pain that wouldn't go away. I was put on 3 different antibiotics because my doc thought I had an infection. I kept going in for blood work and ultrasounds because I was in horrible pain. My doctor couldn't find out why. On top of that I was always exhausted even when I wasn't doing anything. I then decided to read up on the reviews and decided to have it removed . I am already feeling so much better. My doctor said it could have been because my uterus is shaped differently and it could have been pushing up against something causing all of the pain. I am so happy I decided to listen to my body and have it taken out."
"""This IUD was my only option because hormones apparently give me blood clots (not fun!).
I went to the gyno during my period and after taking the uterus softener pill and she put the device in. The process is very crampy, but not what I would describe as painful. It's also SUPER quick, so you have those cramps for 1 minute, then nothing. So, waited a couple days, had sex and my boyfriend goes ""Ow! It poked me!"" Well, when I went to follow up with the nurse, she said it had slipped partially out. She inserted a new one then and there (no softener pills, no period, but still only slight cramping) and I have been good to go for a year! I haven't seen any difference in my period, I didn't have any weight gain, no mood swings, no side effects at all.
I cannot recommend this enough now that it's fully in (and trust me, we could tell when it wasn't). A quick 5 minute process for 10 years of no babies? 100% worth it."""
"I had my paraguard placed 4 months after my last child was born. I was breastfeeding so I never had any of the heavy periods that can be a side effect. It's been amazing. Best birth control investment"
"I have had ParaGard for almost 4 years. It's been effective and I am not aware of any side effects. My body does not react well to traditional hormonal birth control so this was an ideal choice for me.  Pills and Depo had undesirable side effects and the “natural” method is how I got pregnant with my son (ha!). The only drawback to Paraguard is the heavy longer periods. Without the IUD my periods are 3 days. With it they run 6-7 days.  The bleeding is heavier but not unbearable. I do have some insecurity about it failing as time passes, but that's because I am 41 and vehemently opposed to another child. I do recommend it."
"I'm a healthy active women in my early twenties and have never been pregnant. I originally tried the Mirena IUD and had a horrible experience where I bled and cramped for two weeks straight. After removing it, I opted to try the copper IUD. I've now had it in over 7 months and am so happy with my decision. I'm in a monogamous relationship and I don't worry about a thing anymore. I've had no real side effects, except sore swollen boobs and mild PMS right before my period. Otherwise, my period arrives each month like clock work and lasts a little longer than it did before the IUD. Overall, I am very pleased with the ParaGard and have no real complaints. It seems like an effective and viable option for those who want to avoid hormones. I'd strongly recommend it!"
"The copper IUD got embedded in my uterus and I had to have surgery to get it removed. It was a horrible experience."
"""ParaGard is very effective if the copper toxicity is meant to effect only the thin lining of the uterus, that prevents implantation of a fertilized egg, and doesn't start circulating in your blood streams. 
First 2 to 3 months signs of fatigue with mornings legs and joints aches, (calves and ankles) You'll dismiss because the cramping and heavy periods will have your whole attention. At 4 months still fatigue, morning body aches and skin breakouts. That is your body showings you it's getting deeper. About 6 months in add sleepless nights.. and within 9 months your sex drive is diminished naturally due to that very thin lining being always inflamed and communicating with your ovaries consequently with your brain that produces less libido. If you're lucky like me you'll start with vomiting, fainting and eventually going through an expulsion, and saving your self a bunch of money for the removal. Doctors will not disclose adverse conditions they loose money!!"""
"When I first considered the IUD I was really concerned about the pain during insertion and about excessive bleeding and cramping but decided to go with it anyway because it's hormone free. I have to say the insertion was extremely painful and the whole process itself lasted about 15 minutes, but for the whole rest of the day the pain just got worse. I was dizzy, getting hot flashes, and having the worst cramps of my life. LUCKILY that went away the very next day & every period since. The cramps are slightly more intense and I have slightly heavier bleeding but nothing too far off from my normal period before the IUD. (Which was extremely light flow for 2-3 days. Now it's medium flow for 4 days with cramps the first day). My doctor really freaked me out by telling me she knew people who bled for months at a time on the IUD, do not let that scare you! It sure wasn't the case for me!"
"Good for preventing pregnancy, but I had a lot of bad symptoms with cramps throughout the month that went from uncomfortable and annoying to unbearable pain."
"""I had the copper IUD inserted 6+ weeks ago & wanted to share my positive experience as the negative reviews I read online almost prevented me from getting it.
I had my IUD inserted at a woman's clinic. I dreaded the process after reading negative reviews, but after taking 2 ibuprofen, the insertion was not that bad. I had a bit of cramping & a bit more cramping/spotting the day of. In the week following insertion, I had a bit of spotting and cramping that then faded.
Since then, my periods have been normal– I have had two since insertion, and they have been no heavier or longer than usual. 
If you are researching this option  my advice is to ignore others' experiences. Do your own research, choose a Dr./women's clinic with experience in IUD insertions, then and see how your own body reacts. Try to keep a positive  attitude so that you don't waste your worry on a procedure that may turn out to be ok."""
"Lots of bad reviews and I'm sorry to the many women who have had bad experiences with ParaGard.  Mine has been great and I totally recommend it.  I haven't had any of the symptoms other women have had.  As far as insertion,  a slight pinch.  No cramps after.  Spotting yes for maybe two months but no constant bleeding. Periods for the first three months were BEYOND HORRIBLE!!  But then calmed down.  Period has gone from 4-5 days to 7 days but only one heavy day.  It does linger towards the end.  I did bleed after sex for about 6 months.  But other than that it's been great.  Strings don't bother my bf,  no cramps,  no lack of sex drive,  no acne, no PMS, no irritability, no foggy mind etc.  I'm the same as always.  Of course everyone is different and you know your body the best.  Just know after the fist few months it does get better!"
"This has been the worst time of my life with this. I've had it for only four days and I have almost passed out on multiple occasions. I keep having a shortness of breath, uterus screams in pain anytime I have to go to the bathroom, bend over in anyway, and walk. My doctor couldn't say anything regarding copper toxicity or how the IUD actually worked. She said it will cause inflammation in the uterus ... how the heck is this natural? If your uterus is inflamed... your body will react"
"""Please do your research and pay attention to your own body. This IUD did not work for me, but it may in fact be amazing for you.
 I had it placed at 6 weeks post partum. By 12 weeks I was having panic attacks and anxiety. Flash forward a year, my anxiety and panic attacks are at a whole different level, I started having depressive episodes (all of this is new to me) in the past year I have had two yeast infections (this also has never happened) I finally went to a naturopath who prescribed progesterone therapy for my low progesterone and my sky high estrogen. I have constant fatigue, joint popping & headaches. My lower back would throb constantly. I couldn't feel when I needed to pee. My libido is in the trash. After finding some blogs I decided to have it removed. Immediately my back pain was gone within 30 mins and within 24 hours I could feel when I had to pee again. If you have a reaction to nickel or fake earrings please do your research and make sure this IUD is for you."""
"When I first had paragard implanted, I had extreme pain and cramping. The doctor actually had me stay in his office for an extra hour after placement because he said I was so pale. For the next two months, I was bleeding nonstop. I went for my check up and they said the paragard had moved out of place. They took it out and put a new one in. Again, extreme pain. I continued to bleed for three more months. At work one night, I felt this crazy pain "down there". I went to the doctor on Monday and my doctor told me that my body was actually rejecting paragard. The implant had become expelled. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone. I thought this was my non-hormonal solution, which is why I kept waiting for my experience to improve. It is not at all the natural solution to birth control I was looking for."
"Great birth control. I chose non hormonal IUD because I don't want to add anything more my body post 2 kids. It turns out, my entire body was reacting to the “inflammation” creates by this IUD: brain fog, memory loss, swelling in extremities, weight gain, fatigue, dizziness, numbness and tingling sensations in my hands, wrists, arms, low BP. I thought the symptoms were heart related, had vials of labwork done. Everything came back normal EXCEPT my ESR, which indicated a low-grade inflammation. My naturopathic MD said any inflammation is a cause for concern. The only change in my life style was the addition of this IUD a few months ago. I am taking it out. Listen to your body!"
"PLEASE DO NOT BASE YOUR DECISION ON THESE REVIEWS!!!!!!  I literally almost backed out of getting the paragard because of posted experiences.  I reminded myself my body hates hormones and may react differently, and I am so glad I trusted my instincts.  Upon insertion, I experienced about 30 seconds of slightly above mild discomfort while my cervix was being dilated.  A sharp piercing pain was maybe a second when he put it in, and for the remainder of the day I didn't even experience cramping or pain.  I could tell there was a different feeling, but nothing that required medication. I have barely spotted since it's been in, but a couple times have bled similar to menstruation while using the restroom.  Over all and beyond pleasantly surprised thus far with my experience and feel free knowing I no longer have hormones being pumped in my body.  Medicine is not a perfect science, so do your research, know your body, and talk with your physician.  So glad I took the plunge and did this."
"DON'T DO IT. I had my ParaGard in for 16 months. Terrible pain/cramping (I have a high pain tolerance but I was literally doubling over) and heavy HEAVY bleeding... and these side effects/symptoms did not subside after a few months as they say. Weird tissue was expelled a couple times a month and it was so scary to see it in the toilet. The worst thing was the anxiety and sore joints/muscles. I realized about a year or so in that I was experiencing high anxiety (freaking OUT about minor things) and couldn't put my finger on as to what was going on. Finally I did my research and it looks like this is somewhat common. I took it out last month and I felt relief almost immediately. Anxiety has subsided tremendously and the muscle soreness is less as well. The ParaGard is marketed as "hormone-free" but your body does weird things to compensate for the "irritation" it does in your uterus. And the copper toxicity issue is just plain scary. Just don't do it!"
"After much consideration, I removed my IUD . I got the IUD 2 years ago. The insertion was a pinch and quick and the cramping/spotting only lasted for a couple hours. I loved it so far until I experienced my first period. She said it would be heavy and painful first few months but for me it was every month I got my period, SUPER heavy, excruciating cramps, terrible depressing mood swings. I also noticed sex started becoming painful when it never used to be. But the worst of all was the chronic BV. First time I ever had it was 3 months after insertion. I took rounds and rounds of antibiotics and home remedies for 2 years and it always came back after I would have sex. I read that the iud could play a role in recurrent BV episodes, so I am hoping the removal will help me live a happier and healthier life. OVERALL, the IUD is amazing at preventing pregnancy at 99%! I just couldn't live with the side effects any longer. Hope this helps!"
"I had my ParaGard insertion today. I was super nervous because of all that I read regarding the insertion. I took 800mg of Ibuprofen prior to my appt. My experience was quick, easy, and painless!! Everyone is different I suppose..."
"""After an annual OB check in, my gyno who I trust and love told me to look into paraguard after being on the Skyla for the past 3 years. I have bad thyroid problems and mentioned the non hormonal IUD may help with weight loss and bloating. I had no major issues with Skyla, other than the insertion.
I went ahead with the paragaurd with the hopes I would loose some water weight and to get off the hormones ( I have been taking BC since I was  15 and I am now 28). Insertion was not bad at all. 
It's been 5 months and I have been noticing the same two problems. HORRIBLE periods. Will leak through Super plus tampons and a pad within an hour. ZERO sex drive when it was never a problem with my relationship before. 
I will be making an appt next month to have this removed 
Sick of spending money on Super plus tampons and pads ... PADS?! Who even wears pads ...."""
"I miss the peace of mind. Periods were mild/4 days. They changed to 6-7 days of heavy bleeding plus 5-6 days of it getting dragged out for too long. I was constipated/bloated all the time, found myself sleeping 12 hr days & napping on my lunch break, hair loss on my temples, 25 lbs gained over the course of 3 years. Smell & consistency changed, had 4 known bouts of BV which I had never had pre-IUD. Menstrual pain went from 2 to 8 (crying/sweating doubled over, no productivity, no sleep, burning pain, sporadic sharp pains, & the "normal" dull period pain). 3 years pass & I still couldn't handle the menstrual changes or the cramping. It's been a month since removal. I am happy that I no longer have my period 50% of the time & to have back my normal-looking menstrual fluid instead of the strangely thin, often brown, & partially coagulated IUD menstrual fluid.  Listen to your body. If you feel like garbage, get it out. If you haven't had a kid, get a smaller one. IUDs are worth a shot."
"Just for background I have 2 kids, my last one is 7 months and I don't have the highest pain tolerance either just FYI. I just had my Paragard put in about an hour ago and so far so good. I did a lot of research on it beforehand and kind of psyched myself out because of all of the negative experiences I read. My experience was totally opposite. I felt the insertion but it was not painful at all, just a little uncomfortable. I didn't know I was feeling the insertion until the doctor told me we were all done. The whole procedure took about 5 minutes. I did take 800mg I ibuprofen right before my appt. so I haven't felt any cramping as of yet. I just had it done so obviously I can't attest to any after-effects, but I thought I would share my experience with the procedure itself. Everyone is different so take these reviews and experiences with a grain of salt. And relax during the procedure as it will be more painful if your tense and tightening your muscles."
"I'm happy with the paragard so far! My husband and I aren't ready to get pregnant, and I didn't want to be on a hormonal contraceptive, so we chose paragard. My doctor had warned me that I may experience severe cramping for several months since I have never had a kid and my uterus may be small, but I only experienced any cramping on the day of insertion and the day after, and it really wasn't bad. My periods really don't seem any crampier than usual. It does seem like I'm bleeding a little more than usual during periods but mine had been so lite before that they're probably what is average for most women now. Overall I'm so happy to have found a birth control that meets my needs and is effective, and I didn't experience any concerning side effects."
"I would rate paragard a 0 if it were an option. Having paragard in for 3 months was a nightmare. My hair was falling out, my skin became discolored, my chest broke out in painful cystic acne, the bleeding and cramping was extremely unbearable, my anxiety was much worse, my libido disappeared, and my boyfriend also got cut from the strings whenever we had intercourse."
"This is my second Pargard. The first one I got when I was 26 had it for about 4 years and I ended up getting pregnant. Yes it's rare but it does happen. With my first ParaGard besides getting pregnant everything was going great. A few months after having a miscarriage I ended up getting another ParaGard. I have had the worst period and cramps with my second one. I'm also spotting all month long. It's like I always have my period now . Sex is now painful and it killed my sex drive . After 3 years with my second Paragard I have to stay next month I will be getting it removed . Not sure what I will go on next but I will not try another IUD. With all this being said everyone's body is different. Only you will know if something is wrong or what will be good for you."
"""I did not get pregnant, so the paraguard was effective. However, I did suffer many side effects: 
Hair loss
Bloating, even when I didn't eat.
Heart palpitations
Intense anxieties, and depression
Migraines
Nausea, and vomiting 
Fatigue, all the time
Thirsty (dry mouth)
Yeast infections
Pain during sex (my man would get poked or scratched by it)
Spotting either randomly, or after sex
Super super light periods
Joint pains (sciatica, my neck, wrists, and knees)
Red dots on my face which was never there before placement of iud. 
Loss of appetite
Vagina smells like copper (pennies) 
I lost my sense of taste. 
Loss of interest in sex, literally. I couldn't feel anything down there. It was like my clitoris nerve was murdered. I was never wanting to have sex, So I would never initiate it. I would get annoyed or stressed when boyfriend wanted to have sex. 
Copper toxicity is real!"""
"""I had the Paragard inserted almost 5 months postpartum after being on the pill for a few months and experiencing negative hormonal side effects.
I read horror stories about the insertion and was completely terrified-DON'T freak out. It did not give me the “worst cramps of my life” or anything remotely close. Just breathe through it and get a good doctor who has done these often and it's a breeze.
I had minor cramps the first day and even less the following day, nothing super noticeable. I spotted for about four days afterwards and then was done!
So far, I love this IUD. I'll update after I get my first period (who knows when that will happen though as I am currently nursing)."""
"I got the Paragard on 4-2-18 and I got it inserted without being on my period, which was not fun. After it was inserted I had no cramps then two hrs later I felt the cramps coming and they came in waves just laid down and slept for the majority of the day (also didn't bleed, just spotting) While I was sleeping I noticed I had no more cramps or bleeding and was back to normal. Only thing I've noticed is now that it's time for my period to come it's being stubborn just not coming down. But other then that everything is good. No complaints."
"Got Paragard In October .  Now 5 months later I got pregnant. This IUD is a joke. Had to have an abortion. Since wasn't prepared to get pregnant I was using prescription drugs for my MS and Migraine. I do not recommend this copper IUD to anyone."
"""Got it right after I had my son (2 months after) and immediately regretted it
Terrible cramping 
Painful periods
EXCESSIVE BLEEEDING
I'd fill a super tampon and leak through to fill a liner within an hour 
Then the hormonal changes started happening 
Mood swings
Migraines
depression
Anxiety
Panic attacks
Fatigued
Anemic 
So FATIGUED !!"""
"I had Paragard inserted in June of 2017. Nearly a month later I was in the urgent care for what I knew was BV. The only other time I had BV was probably 10 years prior, as a college student. Anyway, I went on to have recurring episodes of BV (having a total of 5 from July 2017 to March 2018), roughly every other month. I was prescribed the pill for the 1st episode. (worked fine). All the other times, I was given the gel. It worked, but not for long, as the BV always came back. This last time (March 2018) I developed a yeast infection after using the gel. After my provider refused to remove the IUD, I removed it. No pain,  and it was fully intact. I feel so much better already, and will probably not have BV again."
"Paraguard overall did work for me what it is suppose to do. I experienced my cycle for 2 weeks from the time that I have had it inserted which was in 2014. And when my before my cycle started I experienced bad cramps and soreness. And a little moody because of this all. Tolerable because I kept it in for so long. I feel as though I'd be much better off with out the heaviness of flow and moody cramping.I went in for regular check ups and concerned check ups but was told every time the symptoms are normal and that I needed to decide to keep or not. When I went to get it removed I thought it very odd the doctor telling me that new studies show that the one that I currently have in is good for two extended years that we told you then before.(total of 12 years, foreign copper object inside you)It almost seemed as if they want you to keep the IUD in. And I was convinced every appointment before getting it removed. And I it was a feeling of relief after removing."
"I used paragard after my second child because I didn't want more children. This was a perfect contraceptive for me since I could use it long term. From a young age, I had heavy periods the first couple days of my cycle and my period lasted up to 7 days. I suffered from cramps since I started menstruating at the age of 11. Cramps the first two days were torture. Initially it was back pain then it changed to cramps. The IUD cut my period to 3-4 days and I didn't get cramps. It was painful during sex for the first three years. I had it removed on my eleventh year.  I haven't notice major issues during or after using Paragard. Only you know your body and can make the best decision for you."
"The IUD perforated my uterus. It was discovered at my two week string check. The IUD h tradaveled and imbedded in scar tissue between my left ovary and fallopian tube. I fear that I may never be able to conceive again. I experienced quite a bit of post partum depression as a result. I had the IUD surgically removed roughly one month after it was discovered out of place. Interestingly I knew something wasn't right shortly after it was put in because l I couldn't sleep, had severe anxiety w/red blotches on my chest and face from heightened anxiety. I had a number of other symptoms, such as trouble fully connecting with new baby, which hadn't been an issue early on. It was over a year ago and I'm still having ultrasounds to check for fluid in my uterus which continued to expand for about 6-7 months after it was removed. In summary, it was a big mistake and I'm still paying for it due to excessive medical bills for therapy, psych, ultrasounds, surgical costs, etc..."
"I got the copper IUD in January of 2018. The insertion was fairly painful but it went away after a while. It was only a sharp cramp for a few minutes but went on for the the rest of the day. My period are the same just longer and spots in between. During sex my partner could feel it but after a few weeks once my body got used to it, we can no longer feel it during sex. We used to use the pull out method before but now with me being on birth control I don't fear as much to get pregnant. I really recommend this birth control because it last a long time."
"""I got ParaGard inserted near the end of December 2017. I decided to go hormone free after bad experiences with the mini pill and the combo pill relating to YIs and BV. The insertion was fast. I've never had my cervix dilated before, so it was a pretty intense few seconds. Mild cramping for a week or two after. When I got to my first period, the cramps sucked. I bought my first heating pad and my significant other listened to me use controlled breathing through the waves of pain. My second month was equally brutal. I almost threw up from the cramps and spent a full day in bed and was bleeding through regular tampons every half hour. 
BUT the third month was normal. One heavy day, a few medium days and one or two light spotting days. And the cramps were tolerable and manageable. No BV, No YIs, No babies.
I know everyone has their own experience, but don't let the negative reviews scare you away. If you can grit your teeth through the first few months, it's totally worth it, in my humble opinion."""
"I got my IUD removed today and a piece of it broke of and is still in my uterus. It is apparently not very uncommon. I do not recommend this birth control."
"I got paragard put in after very soon after I delivered my first baby. I cannot comment on cramps and heavy periods because mine were very heavy to begin with so there was absolutely no difference to me. I have had it about a year and a half and I have had no problems at all. Putting it in wasn't the best feeling, but after childbirth it was nothing. I do not have acne problems like some other users here, but I couldn't get any other form of BC because every single pill gets me extremely nauseous. I have tried different doctors, different pills, milligrams, etc. Nothing worked so I gave up on birthcontrol until the IUD. The only side effect I reaaaally dislike is the fact that I have permanent discharge; got it checked out a few times thinking it might be a yeast infection but I was told its completely normal with an IUD.  I got it done while I was on the government insurance, so thankfully I didn't pay a dime!"
"Constant pain during sex, horrible periods, cramps even when I'm not on my period, and lower back pain."
"I have a positive experience to show . To be honest I was terrified after all the horror reviews I read but I wanted to give it a try as it's non hormonal . So I tried the IUD  paragard  . The insertion wasn't bad for I took 800 mg of Tylenol . I really advise all who decide to get one is  take it an hour before . The process was so fast  it was more like a Pap smear . I had light spotting for the rest of the day and was good to go. In my case I had neither the cramps or heavy bleeding, my periods were the same the five days and I had my normal cramps the first day. So to all out there having doubts give it a try . This is the best decision for birth control I made . My periods are only once a month on schedule, it's non hormonal, the Hubby doesn't feel the strings, my sex drive is back (me and Hubby thinks this is the best part ) and it's good for ten years . I wish I had heard about this earlier."
"This copper IUD caused so many problems to my physical and emotional state. It took me far to long to realize this was the root cause to all my problems. I thought I was being smart and helpful to my body by going horomone free and picking this IUD. Big mistake. Please look into copper toxicity before getting this. Read the symptoms and if you do start feeling like any of them apply to you  then GET IT OUT!!"
"""I got a Paraguard IUD in days later I experienced tight and dry skin.  Long story short it progressed to hives and blisters on MY FACE. After 27 years I have always had CLEAR skin so I know its the IUD. I am also a vegan so it can't be my diet. 
I did learn that an excess of copper in the body produces a zinc deficiency. A zinc deficiency results in *drum roll* dry and peeling skin, eczema, xerosis, etc. All which are symptoms I am having. It can also be due to a copper toxicity. I bought zinc supplements and have been popping them like candy until I get this thing out of me. 
I have been applying Eucerin and castor oil and only washing my face with cold water 1x every couple of days. These things HELP but the problem persists. 
Doctors should do allergy tests BEFORE inserting this in someone. Its been in for about a month and a few days."""
"I've had this IUD in for about 3 months and I'm so happy with it. I was extremely nervous to get it placed due to the bad reviews but took a leap of faith and I'm happy I did. I've had 4 cycles on it and only thing I could say is my periods come one to two days sooner and last a day longer than my normal period. I already was getting my periods pretty close together so it didn't make a huge difference for me. My periods are heavier than before but not to the point where it's making me want to take the IUD out. I do experience light cramping but nothing pamperin can't fix those first few days. The initial insertion was quick but painful and I had cramping that whole day which is probably the only complaint I have. I am happy with my one child who is 7 now so this is great to have in as a bc. Overall I'm satisfied and will continue use."
"Having this was the worst experience of my entire life. I was told that my side effects would go away and they never did. I ended up in the hospital with copper toxicity. After feeling like a crazy person and not myself at all, I found out it was my IUD. Don't get this as you will risk getting sick or possibly being infertile. Was not worth my time."
"""I've had the Paragard now for a month. 
First off let me say that when I first got it, it really wasn't as bad as a lot of people make it out to be. Insertion was a breeze. Was there cramping during? Yes, but only for ten seconds. Take your Advil as recommended, and everything will be fine. Also I went in during the tale end of my period. Which is also recommended. Makes insertion a lot easier. Moving forward, I've had it now for a month, and so far no problems. Also I'm a every 28 days girl, and I just started my cycle again since having the Paragard. It hasn't made my period heavier. The only thing I experience is cramping off and on. Not bad. Take your Ibuprofen and you'll be good."""
"""My IUD moved two years after insertion, when it moved it pulled one of the strings into my uterus and introduced bacteria causing PID. They don't know how long I had PID before I ended up in hospital. Tests confirmed my PID was NOT caused by an STD. 
They removed the IUD and antibiotics cleared the infection but now I face the uncertain possibility of being infertile thanks to an IUD."""
"I originally got this birth control because it is hormone free and effective for 10 years. I am allergic to all hormonal methods of birth control due to an auto immune disorder. Initially the insertion was tolerable. I bled for 6 months straight afterwards. I now have 6 day medium periods and mild cramping. I still spot occasionally and ALWAYS bleed after sex. I also developed an odd odor down below that wreaks of old sweat. From time to time and I have had a yeast infections since the IUD was placed!! I was cured for 1 week in the 7 months I have had it. I have tried clotromizole, miconazole, fluconazole, tioconazole -  every drug they have and the yeast infection WILL NOT LEAVE! I tolerate the yeast infection because I can still have sex without it being too painful. I would NOT recommend this birth control to anyone. Unless they enjoy near constant bleeding and yeast infections."
"Got it inserted May 2017 (2 months after 3rd c section) , I  exclusively breastfeed (ebf) so my period doesn't come back for a while; when I got it inserted I felt like she pierced my uterus. I had a cramp during the insertion. I went home thinking it was ok. 2 hours later I felt I was actually birthing. I crawled around the floor, took so many Advil gels, hrs went by, nothing worked. I had to deal with this for 4 straight hours until it was finally easing. Dec 2017 got my first period, mild to heavy flow, 9 days. Third period Feb 2018 35ml of blood every 2 hrs, severe cramping, back pain, anemic and cold. 4th period ..."
"I got paragard after my third child. The non-hormonal IUD and not taking the pill was a huge plus in my eyes. I immediately felt bladder discomfort, I thought it was just because I had a child. The PERIODS. Don't get me started on that. Lasting for two weeks. A year into it, I started developing horrible acne. Year 2, it became cystic. I just never felt like me. Always in a fog, horrible periods, my face was awful, severely depressed, having to go to the bathroom ALL the time, and my hair thinned out. I'm Italian, that just doesn't happen on it's own. After 9 years of constantly feeling it, it was time to remove it. I felt euphoric upon removal. I didn't have to go to the bathroom every hour, and my mood swings stopped. It's only the beginning, but I can't wait to get back to normal! Most of these people saying they love it, are a couple of months in. You don't just get over 1,000 women saying the same thing after getting paragard. I feel like I have my brain back now."
"""Cooper IUD was the worse thing I have done in my entire life and I had it for six months. I don't think I've ever taken so many days off of work
1. I wouldn't stop bleeding  I mean 4 super size tamping in LESS then 2 hours- I would stand up and work and had blood on the seat, or wake up in the middle of the night dripping down my leg - had a very supportive and understanding boyfriend at the time. 
2. The cramps were the worse pain I've ever felt and I've had my tonsils out- I would lay in a ball crying- which I have never done before. 
I went to go get it taken out and she told me she wouldn't because nothing was wrong 
I would have one week period free the rest of the month I was bleeding 
Then I started peeing out blood clots and that's when I called trying not to get too emotional and they told me to get in ASAP and they finally took it out"""
"I got my IUD inserted in April or May 2017. Insertion was easy, I took a ton of medicine (probably too much).  The first 48 hours were horrible cramps. First 3 periods were heavy as anything, had to change my tampon almost every hour. After the first 3 it was easy peasy. Period has been much lighter and minimal cramps. I have to say the first 2 1/2 painful months were worth it!! I'm a happy girl now :-). I got the copper iud because I don't like hormones from all the other birth controls."
"I decided on the copper IUD after much deliberation and I'm constantly so happy I did. I started having sex in 2012, and we continued using condoms until I decided to get an IUD in 2014. The insertion process was very quick, although the cramps afterward were pretty debilitating until the ibuprofen kicked in. After that the only side effects I experienced were heavier periods and slightly worse PMS. My periods have always been very irregular so I can't speak to that, but I do think that they're slightly longer than average now (between 5 -10 days) and occasionally happen more frequently. Obviously this works very differently for everyone, but I really cannot recommend this kind of long lasting birth control enough, especially in the ever changing political climate."
"I got my IUD - Liberte TT380 Short inserted almost two months ago, I chose the copper instead of hormonal because I did not want to risk the negative side effects of progesterone. Now ironically I am switching to a hormonal IUD since my side effects are so bad, and my doctor said that my IUD was too small for my uterus after I got an ultrasound checking its position - I could either switch to a hormonal IUD or a larger copper one. I'd recommend everyone to ask their doctor to refer them to an ultrasound since not every doctor does it!! The insertion was not terrible - I generally have high pain tolerance, but I felt a long sharp cramp. The first few weeks after the insertion I had mild cramping and light discharge/spotting almost everyday, and my period was definitely heavier and more uncomfortable. After my first period I would not stop bleeding and I constantly have painful cramps. I tried to like it, but now I am counting the days until it is switched."